-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════
-- Planet-in-Sign V2 — All 12 Signs (Planet-Specific)
-- Run this in Supabase SQL Editor to update all signs
-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════

-- Updated Aries entries — planet-specific, not sign-generic
-- Each planet talks about ITS domain through the Aries lens


-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════

-- Delete old Aries entries first
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Aries';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Aries',
 'Your core identity is about being FIRST. You are the pioneer, the one who charges ahead before the map is drawn. Your sense of self is built on independence, courage, and the need to prove yourself through action. You know who you are because you''re constantly discovering it — through doing, not thinking.',
 'You move fast and you expect the world to keep up. You''re the person who volunteers first, applies for the job nobody else dares to try, takes the road nobody''s taken. You''re naturally competitive because you measure yourself against something bigger. You don''t follow trends; you start them. Your life is a series of fresh starts and bold moves.',
 'You bring directness and enthusiasm to relationships. You love fiercely and fast, and you expect the same in return. You don''t do slow burns — you''re all in or not interested. Partners appreciate your honesty but sometimes get whiplash from your intensity. You need someone who won''t slow you down or try to contain you.',
 'Your impatience makes you quit things before they''re ready. You can be so focused on the next challenge that you don''t finish what you''ve started. You can steamroll people without meaning to. Your competitive nature sometimes makes you see relationships as battles to win rather than connections to nurture.',
 'Your courage is real and rare — use it to start meaningful things, not just to feed your ego. Completion is just as powerful as initiation. Learn that leading doesn''t mean always being fastest. Your identity gets deeper when you stay with something long enough to understand it, not just conquer it.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Moon', 'Aries',
 'Your emotional needs are about FEELING ALIVE. You need action, adrenaline, and the rush of new experience to feel like you exist. Boredom is your biggest emotional fear. You don''t process feelings by sitting with them — you move through them fast, sometimes so fast you don''t notice what you actually felt.',
 'You''re energized by challenge and competition. Peaceful routines feel stagnant to you. You get irritable and moody when you''re trapped or restricted. Your emotional expression is direct and uncomplicated — you get angry fast and you''re over it fast. You need to feel like you''re making progress, moving forward, winning something every day.',
 'You need emotional excitement and freedom in relationships. You want a partner who''s active, engaged, not clingy or dependent. You can be loving but you need space to be yourself. You show affection through action and adventure, not through prolonged emotional conversation. You need someone who challenges you.',
 'Your need for stimulation can make you restless and unable to stay with deep feelings. You may avoid real emotional vulnerability by keeping things surface-level and fast-paced. Your moodiness can come across as aggression. Calm relationships feel like emotional death to you, so you create drama to feel something.',
 'Emotional depth doesn''t require you to slow down — it requires you to NOTICE. Your feelings are real even if you process them quickly. Learn to stay present with what you feel for longer than five minutes. The people worth keeping are worth slowing down for.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Mercury', 'Aries',
 'Your thinking style is DIRECT and FAST. You see a problem and you immediately see the solution. Your mind works in straight lines, not spirals. You think out loud, you make decisions quickly, and you''re rarely second-guessing yourself. You understand things through action and direct experience, not theory.',
 'You''re a natural speaker — bold, assertive, convincing. People listen when you talk because you speak with conviction. You get bored by long explanations; you want facts, fast. You''re quick-witted and your humor is sharp and immediate. You think competitively and you approach arguments like you approach everything else — to win.',
 'Your communication style is refreshingly honest. You say what others are thinking but won''t say out loud. You don''t play games in conversation — you want straight answers and you give straight answers. You can stimulate partners intellectually through debate. You''re not interested in small talk.',
 'Your directness can hurt people before you realize you''ve said something harsh. You interrupt because you''re already moving to the next idea. You may not listen fully because you''re already formulating your response. Your certainty can feel arrogant. You struggle with complex, nuanced topics that don''t have clear answers.',
 'Listening is a skill worth developing — you might learn something if you hear someone all the way through. Your directness is a strength; use it to clarify, not to conquer. Not every conversation is a battle. Sometimes the wisest thing is saying nothing and sitting with the complexity.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Venus', 'Aries',
 'You love with IMMEDIATE, PASSIONATE INTENSITY. You see someone attractive and you''re already imagining the adventure. Your attractions are fast, hot, and undeniable. You don''t do gradual seduction — you prefer the direct approach. Beauty, for you, means fire, confidence, and energy.',
 'You''re drawn to exciting, active people who can keep up with you. Your aesthetic leans toward bold colors, striking style, and things that make a statement. You value independence in partners — you don''t want someone clingy. You spend money on experiences and adventures. You flirt easily because you''re naturally playful and confident.',
 'You bring passion and excitement to relationships. You pursue your love interest directly and without apology. You want a partner who''s a team captain, not a supporting player. Physical intimacy is important — you''re sensual and present during sex. You show love through action, not words.',
 'Your impatience can make you abandon relationships once the conquest is over. You can mistake the thrill of new attraction for lasting love. Your competitiveness might make you want someone partly because someone else does. You can be selfish in love because you''re focused on getting what you want.',
 'Real love is about building something with someone, not just winning them. Let the excitement come from deepening a connection, not chasing a new one. Your passion is beautiful — channel it toward someone worth the intensity. The best relationships feed your spirit, not just your ego.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Mars', 'Aries',
 'This is Mars in its own sign — the most direct expression of DRIVE, ACTION, and COURAGE. Your willpower is legendary. You don''t hesitate, you don''t question, you ACT. Your sexuality is uncomplicated and confident. Your anger is fast and explosive, then it''s gone. You move at maximum intensity.',
 'You''re a natural athlete or warrior-type. You throw yourself into physical challenges fearlessly. You compete to win, not to participate. Your sexual energy is obvious and powerful — you attract people without trying. You work best in short bursts of intense effort. Laziness is your only real enemy.',
 'You bring physical vitality and passion to sexuality. You''re generous with your body and your energy. You need a partner who can match your intensity and sexual appetite. You''re protective of people you care about — you''ll fight for them. You''re straightforward about desire.',
 'Your rage can be destructive before you''ve even thought about consequences. You can be reckless with your own safety and other people''s feelings. Your impatience makes you start fights without thinking through them. You may confuse aggression with confidence.',
 'Your courage is genuine — use it for things worth fighting for, not just to prove you''re tough. Channel your physical intensity into creation, not just conquest. Your anger is information; listen to it instead of just acting it out. The strongest warriors know when not to fight.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Jupiter', 'Aries',
 'Your growth comes through BOLD ACTION and taking BIGGER RISKS. You expand by going places others won''t go, trying things others won''t try. Your luck isn''t passive — it comes from your willingness to charge into opportunity. Each challenge makes you more courageous, not less.',
 'You''re naturally optimistic and confident in your abilities. You take on leadership roles easily because you genuinely believe you can win. You''re drawn to adventure, competition, and anything that feels NEW. You learn through direct experience and action. Your generosity is legendary when you''re inspired.',
 'You bring optimism and possibility to relationships. You inspire people to be braver versions of themselves. You attract growth-oriented partners who want to expand. You believe in second chances and you encourage risk-taking in people you care about.',
 'Your overconfidence can lead you into situations you''re not ready for. You may take unnecessary risks that endanger yourself or others. Your optimism can become blind — you don''t always see the obstacles. You can be reckless with other people''s money and resources.',
 'Confidence without wisdom is just recklessness. Your ability to take action is powerful — direct it toward goals that actually matter. Growth requires some fear; it shouldn''t be thoughtless. Teach people courage by being thoughtfully brave, not just impulsively bold.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Saturn', 'Aries',
 'Your biggest life lessons come through LEARNING TO THINK BEFORE YOU ACT. You were born needing to prove yourself, and Saturn''s job is teaching you that not everything is a battle. Your discipline is the warrior''s discipline — learning when to hold back, when to wait, when the best strategy is patience.',
 'You''re responsible in action. When you commit to something, you follow through. You have natural leadership because people trust that you''ll make the hard calls. You may have experienced early setbacks that taught you to be more careful. You''re learning that premature action has consequences.',
 'You bring stability and reliability to relationships over time. You learn through relationships that your needs aren''t the only ones that matter. You take partnership seriously once you''re in it. You''re faithful and committed, even if it takes you a while to get there.',
 'Your impatience wars with Saturn''s need for caution. You can become aggressive when forced to slow down. You may be terrified of losing your edge if you become too careful. Your fear of missing out makes it hard to be deliberate. You sometimes learn lessons the hard way because you won''t listen.',
 'The lesson isn''t to stop being bold — it''s to be strategically bold. Your warrior energy is needed; timing is everything. The fastest way isn''t always the way. Your power increases when you know the difference between courage and recklessness.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Uranus', 'Aries',
 'Your generation breaks RULES and REDEFINES INDEPENDENCE itself. You bring sudden disruption to leadership structures, gender roles, and how we think about courage. Individually, you experience sudden bursts of revolutionary energy. Your rebellion is restless and forward-moving.',
 'You''re drawn to new technology, unconventional approaches, and anything that feels like the next frontier. You may have experienced sudden shifts in status or identity that made you question everything. You''re impatient with tradition and authority.',
 'You bring unpredictability and excitement to relationships. You need partners who can handle your need for freedom. You may be attracted to unconventional relationship structures or ways of expressing love.',
 'Your need for independence can sabotage intimate connection. You may leave relationships suddenly when they start to feel confining. Your restlessness makes it hard to commit to anything long-term.',
 'Freedom and commitment aren''t opposites. Your revolutionary energy is needed in the world. Use your need for independence to inspire others, not to isolate yourself. True courage is sometimes staying, not always leaving.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Neptune', 'Aries',
 'Your generation has visionary energy and spiritual courage. You see possibilities and ideals that inspire whole movements. You sense where the culture is heading before it gets there. Individually, your spiritual path involves action and direct experience of the divine.',
 'You''re drawn to spiritual practices that involve movement, dance, or direct action. You may have a mystical experience that changes your understanding of courage or heroism. You idealize leaders and revolutionary figures.',
 'You bring idealism and inspiration to relationships. You may see partners as symbols of something bigger than themselves. You inspire people to believe in impossible things.',
 'Your idealism can become naïveté. You may follow leaders or causes blindly. You can confuse your spiritual vision with reality. You''re prone to hero-worship that sets people up to disappoint you.',
 'Your vision is valuable — ground it in reality. Spiritual inspiration is powerful when it leads to actual action and change. Ideals without effort are just dreams. Your generation''s gift is showing the world what''s possible.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Pluto', 'Aries',
 'Your generation undergoes TOTAL TRANSFORMATION of leadership, power, and identity itself. You''re born into a world that demands a new kind of courage — one that destroys old paradigms and births new ones. Individually, you experience absolute power struggles and rebirth.',
 'You''re drawn to positions of power or to understanding power dynamics at a deep level. You may have experienced trauma or intense situations that gave you a different relationship to fear. You understand that destruction and creation are the same process. You''re not afraid of going to the edge.',
 'Your relationships are intense power dynamics. You transform people through your presence. Nothing about your intimate life is surface-level. You''re drawn to people who challenge your power or your understanding of it.',
 'You can become obsessed with control and domination. You may destroy things — including relationships — preemptively because you''re afraid of losing them. Your intensity can become abusive. Your need to transform everything can be destructive.',
 'Power is most real when it''s used to build and create. You don''t need to destroy to transform. Your generation''s role is to show the world the cycle of death and rebirth — do it consciously and responsibly. Your true power is in your ability to regenerate and help others do the same.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']);
-- Taurus entries — planet-specific domains
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Taurus';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Taurus',
 'Your core identity is built on stability, sensuality, and unwavering presence. You''re the solid ground others build on—reliable, grounded, and fundamentally self-assured.',
 'You move through life deliberately and steadily, building lasting foundations in everything you touch. Security isn''t optional; it''s the bedrock of who you are. You tend to stick with what works, refining rather than abandoning, and you have a natural magnetism that comes from genuine comfort in your own skin.',
 'You''re the loyal, steady partner who creates safety through consistency. In relationships, you''re sensual, affectionate, and fully present—you don''t do anything halfway. People feel genuinely valued by you, even if you express love through simple, physical presence rather than grand gestures.',
 'Your stubbornness can calcify into refusal to change, even when change serves you. Complacency can sneak in when you''re too content. You may resist growth because the new feels uncomfortable, losing sight of what you''re working toward.',
 'Practice flexibility within structure—learn that adaptation isn''t betrayal. Cultivate awareness of when you''re holding on for security versus genuine alignment. Your true power emerges when you ground change itself, becoming the steady force through transitions, not just the resistant one.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Moon', 'Taurus',
 'Your emotional needs are simple and profound: safety, comfort, and physical reassurance. You process feelings through the body and the senses; you need to feel secure before you can feel content.',
 'You''re most emotionally stable when surrounded by tangible security—good food, cozy spaces, reliable people, and sensory beauty. You don''t swing rapidly through emotional states; instead, you settle into feelings and stay there until they naturally shift. Financial and physical stability directly impact your emotional well-being.',
 'You nurture through presence and touch—a meal, a shoulder to lean on, your steady calm when others are chaotic. You''re the emotional anchor in your relationships, offering genuine comfort precisely because you''ve grounded yourself first. You show love through reliability and sensory attentiveness.',
 'Your need for security can become overattachment to possessions, people, or habits. You may resist acknowledging uncomfortable emotions because acknowledging them disrupts your carefully crafted peace. Inflexibility in how you need to feel safe can trap you in situations that no longer serve.',
 'Learn that emotional growth sometimes requires loosening your grip on how things "should be." Building security through inner resources—self-soothing practices, self-trust—gives you freedom to adapt externally. Your steadiness becomes gift, not cage.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Mercury', 'Taurus',
 'Your thinking style is deliberate, practical, and grounded in real-world utility. You speak slowly and with purpose; every word earned its place. You''re not interested in abstract theory without application.',
 'You gather information methodically, testing ideas against experience before accepting them. Your mind works at a steady pace—you''re not the quickest thinker, but you''re thorough and hard to rattle. You trust what you''ve learned through repetition and direct experience; hunches don''t move you without evidence.',
 'You communicate with calm directness; people trust your words because you don''t waste them. You''re patient with people''s questions and you explain things practically, grounding them in concrete examples. However, you can frustrate faster thinkers who interpret your pace as stubbornness rather than thoroughness.',
 'Your resistance to abstract thought limits you when you need to work with theoretical frameworks or rapid-fire idea exchanges. You can mistake your steady pace for competence and resist learning faster methods. Inflexibility in how you approach problems can lock you into outdated strategies.',
 'Intentionally stretch into conceptual thinking and let yourself explore ideas without immediate utility. Practice intellectual flexibility—rapid brainstorming without judgment. Your gift is translating ideas into workable systems; use that gift without gatekeeping what ideas deserve translation.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Venus', 'Taurus',
 'Venus is HOME in Taurus—here she''s most powerful and natural. Your love style is sensual, devoted, and grounded in genuine feeling. You seek beauty in the real, the touchable, the lasting. This is domicile—you''re Venus at her most authentic.',
 'You attract through serene confidence and authentic presence rather than effort or performance. In love, you''re steady and loyal, building intimacy through consistency, touch, and shared comfort. You appreciate beauty but real beauty—a good meal, genuine warmth, natural grace. You''re drawn to stability in partnership and you build it through daily attentiveness.',
 'You''re the devoted partner who creates safe harbor through sensory care—good cooking, physical affection, genuine interest in your person''s comfort. You''re not flashy in love, but you''re dependable in a way that slowly becomes irreplaceable. People feel deeply valued in your presence because you''re fully there.',
 'You can become possessive, mistaking loyalty for ownership. Your resistance to change in relationships can trap both you and your person. Sensuality without connection becomes mere consumption; you must balance your appreciation for the physical with genuine emotional intimacy.',
 'Use your natural gifts to create not possession but genuine sanctuary. Let love evolve while you remain steady. Your greatest strength is showing people they''re worthy of consistent care—practice this without demand for return. Your Venus is richest when giving freely, not keeping score.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Mars', 'Taurus',
 'Your drive is powerful but patient—like a bull, you''re slow to anger but devastating when provoked. You have tremendous stamina and determination, but you move at your own deliberate pace. Energy, sexuality, and ambition flow steadily, not explosively.',
 'You''re not impulsive; you build toward goals methodically, compounding effort into tangible results. Your sexuality is earthy and genuine, appreciating direct physical intimacy without games. In work and life, you''re reliable and consistent, showing up day after day—your persistence wears down obstacles. You don''t rush; you arrive.',
 'You approach conflict with surprising calm until you reach your limit, then you''re formidable. Sexually, you''re straightforward and sensual, comfortable in your body. In partnership, you''re physically affectionate and grounded, showing desire through presence and touch. You expect loyalty in return for your steady devotion.',
 'Your stubbornness can entrench you in situations you''re trying to change—inertia becomes immobilization. You can be sexually possessive or struggle with someone who needs more spontaneity. Slowness to anger means you hold resentment for a very long time before it explodes destructively.',
 'Learn to channel impatience into productive action; sometimes faster movement serves your goals. Practice expressing small frustrations before they calcify. Your stamina is legendary—use it to adapt and evolve, not just to endure. Sexuality deepens when you remain vulnerable, not just present.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Jupiter', 'Taurus',
 'Your luck comes through patience, persistence, and trusting the slow accumulation of resources. You have an intuitive understanding of value and what endures. Expansion for you isn''t rapid growth; it''s deep roots and compound returns.',
 'You''re blessed by reliable growth when you tend to what you''ve planted. Financial abundance often comes through steady work rather than risk or luck; you''re naturally drawn to building security methodically. Your philosophy is grounded and pragmatic—you trust what works and what you can verify. Long-term thinking is your superpower.',
 'You bring stability to groups and enterprises through calm, reliable presence. People trust your judgment because you''re not reckless. In sharing knowledge, you''re generous but grounded, teaching through real-world example rather than ideology. Your optimism is quiet and steady, never naive.',
 'Your conservatism can limit your upside—you may miss growth opportunities because they feel risky. Over-caution can be disguised fear; you may conflate security with stagnation. Your faith in slow accumulation can blind you to moments when bolder action would serve better.',
 'Consciously stretch into calculated risks that align with your long-term vision. Trust that abundance has many forms—growth doesn''t require recklessness. Your true gift is seeing what endures; use that sight to navigate bigger opportunities with confidence, not paralysis.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Saturn', 'Taurus',
 'Your life lessons revolve around building real security through discipline, responsibility, and genuine mastery. Saturn here teaches through solid testing; what you build lasts because you''ve done it right. You learn that true comfort comes from doing the work.',
 'You encounter challenges that demand you build something real—relationships, skills, finances—with no shortcuts. Progress feels glacially slow; you may work for years before seeing results, then suddenly a structure solidifies. Your tests arrive through responsibility: maintaining security, keeping promises, disciplining yourself when it''s easier not to.',
 'You''re the person people lean on because you''ve proven yourself worthy of trust. Relationships deepen through demonstrated consistency over time. You show your love through reliability, follow-through, and willingness to weather difficulties. However, others may resent your slowness or perceived coldness.',
 'Your deepest fear is losing security or being unable to provide it. This fear can drive over-work, hoarding, or relationship stagnation if you''re clinging to stability that''s calcified into dead weight. You may have been taught that love = obligation, trapping you in situations that don''t serve.',
 'Practice distinguishing between healthy responsibility and self-punishment. True security comes from competence, not control. Your greatest growth emerges when you can release old structures that no longer serve—this requires trust that you''ve built something solid enough to weather change.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Uranus', 'Taurus',
 'Your generational rebellion is quiet but unmovable—you''re the fixed revolutionary who changes the world through stubborn insistence on a better way. While your peers resist fiercely, you calmly redirect toward new values. Change for you is about redefining security itself.',
 'Your generation rewires what "stability" means, often through circumstance that forces obsolescence. You''re immune to peer pressure because you''ve already decided what matters; sudden upheaval in your world—financial, relational, structural—often becomes the catalyst for genuine liberation. You''re surprisingly unbothered by disruption when it aligns with your values.',
 'You bring steady innovation to relationships and community, redefining tradition without rejecting it. Your rebellions are quiet and proven: "Here''s a better way." You''re loyal to people but not to outdated systems, and this clarity is deeply attractive. You inspire others through example, not preaching.',
 'Your resistance to change can mask as progressive belief while you cling to comfort. You may be paralyzed when sudden shifts arrive—your groundedness can become rigidity when the ground itself shifts. Stubbornness about "how things should work" can prevent you from adapting quickly enough.',
 'Cultivate flexibility within your values; staying true to yourself doesn''t require staying still. Embrace the sudden shifts your generation experiences as invitations to redefine, not destroy. Your power emerges when you ground change itself, becoming the steady force that stabilizes the new.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Neptune', 'Taurus',
 'Your generational dreams are grounded and material—you envision a world where resources are shared, beauty is accessible, and the sensual needs of all people are honored. Neptune in Taurus dreams practically, but the dream is vast.',
 'Your generation''s spirituality is embodied and earth-based, less interested in abstract transcendence and more in the sacred within the material. You may encounter collective illusions about money, possessions, and security; your job is seeing through them. Escapism through consumption or substance is a real shadow for your generation.',
 'You inspire others by grounding spiritual ideals in practical reality—showing how the sacred lives in the everyday, the sensual, the simple. Your vision of a better world includes good food, accessible beauty, and genuine comfort for all. You''re the bridge between materialism and spirituality.',
 'Your generation can become collectively confused about values—what''s real versus imagined, what creates genuine security versus false comfort. You may struggle to distinguish spiritual practice from escapism, or use materialism to avoid spiritual growth. Addiction and illusion around abundance can affect your generation profoundly.',
 'Ground your spiritual vision in real action and real systems change. Your idealism is your gift; protect it by staying grounded in material reality. Help your generation distinguish between nourishing sensuality and numbing escapism. The sacred and the sensual are not in opposition—this is your teaching.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Pluto', 'Taurus',
 'Your generational transformation is about the redefinition of value itself. Pluto in Taurus is reshaping how humanity relates to money, possessions, resources, security, and the body. What you rebuild will endure; what you deconstruct was already dying.',
 'Your generation encounters total upheaval in systems of resource distribution, property, and material security. What feels permanent—land, money, currency, economic systems—is revealed as fragile and malleable. You''re witnessing and facilitating the death of old resource models and the birth of new ones. This is generational trauma and generational medicine simultaneously.',
 'You bring quiet power to conversations about justice, resource equity, and true value. You''re part of a generation learning to hold the paradox: you need security, yet all forms of security are being revealed as impermanent. Your resilience comes from redefining security inwardly, not externally.',
 'Your generation faces collective fear about survival and security; this can activate scarcity consciousness, hoarding, or desperation. You may swing between fatalism about material collapse and denial that change is coming. The temptation to cling to old systems (or reject all systems) is powerful.',
 'Your role is helping rebuild security on new foundations—not economic, but spiritual and relational. Trust that destruction precedes recreation; what emerges from Pluto''s passage will be genuine and rooted. Your generation is learning that true wealth is resilience, community, and connection—not accumulation.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']);
-- Gemini planet seed data — planet-specific domains
-- Each planet explores its own function through the Gemini lens
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Gemini';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Gemini',
 'Your core identity is adaptable, curious, and multi-talented. You''re drawn to variety, stimulation, and making connections across different worlds. People see you as intellectually restless and endlessly interested in understanding how things work.',
 'You move through life by exploring multiple interests, perspectives, and social circles simultaneously. Your sense of self strengthens through learning, conversation, and finding fresh angles on old problems. Identity for you is less fixed and more like a kaleidoscope—constantly turning toward new light.',
 'You''re drawn to people who can keep up intellectually and appreciate your need for stimulation and variety. You''re a natural communicator who brings lightness and humor to relationships. Others find you engaging but sometimes struggle with your tendency to flit between commitments and moods.',
 'Your biggest challenge is developing staying power and depth. You can scatter yourself thin across too many projects, ideas, and people, mistaking breadth for mastery. Learning to commit to fewer things more fully, and to sit with complexity rather than rush to the next thing, is crucial.',
 'Your growth comes through recognizing that true mastery requires focusing your brilliant mind on what genuinely matters to you. Develop patience with repetition and boredom. Let curiosity deepen into expertise. Your gift is connecting dots—use it to create something that lasts, not just entertains.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Moon', 'Gemini',
 'Your emotional life runs on logic and mental stimulation. You process feelings through words, analysis, and conversation—emotions need to make sense to you. You''re emotionally restless, needing variety in how you nurture yourself and others.',
 'You soothe yourself by talking things through, learning about them, and understanding them intellectually. Sitting with raw feeling without context makes you anxious. Your emotional needs shift quickly; what comforts you today might feel boring tomorrow. You find security in flexibility and mental engagement.',
 'You''re emotionally approachable and curious about others'' inner worlds. You listen well and communicate your feelings clearly, though you sometimes skip over the deeper emotional layers. Partners appreciate your even-handedness but may feel you''re avoiding the messy, irrational parts of intimacy.',
 'Your challenge is accepting that not every emotion needs to be explained away. You can use thinking as a defense against feeling vulnerable or overwhelmed. Learning to sit with ambiguity and to value intuition as much as logic is essential for emotional maturity.',
 'Growth comes from trusting your feelings even when they don''t make logical sense. Let yourself be emotionally curious without immediately categorizing or analyzing. Your gift is communicating emotional truths—use it to help others feel heard, and allow yourself the same permission.',
 ARRAY['Forrest, The Inner Sky', 'Bolen, The Moon in Your Life', 'Lilly, Christian Astrology']),

('Mercury', 'Gemini',
 'Your thinking style is Mercury at home—quick, versatile, endlessly curious, and naturally gifted at communication. You''re designed to gather information, make connections, and articulate ideas with clarity and wit. Your mind is your greatest tool.',
 'You learn fast, ask good questions, and enjoy exploring multiple perspectives on the same topic. Your communication is direct, playful, and often witty. You thrive on mental variety—monotony is your kryptonite. You''re the person who knows a little about everything and can talk your way through almost any situation.',
 'In relationships, you''re the communicator, the translator, the one who brings humor and lightness to conversations. People love your curiosity and the way you make ideas accessible. You can struggle with depth of listening; you sometimes jump to the next idea before fully exploring the current one.',
 'Your challenge is developing depth alongside breadth. Collecting information doesn''t equal understanding. You can intellectualize when you should feel, and you may struggle to stick with complex ideas long enough to truly master them. Superficiality is your biggest shadow.',
 'Growth comes from consciously choosing depth. Pick ideas, topics, and conversations worth your sustained attention. Your natural gift is translation and connection—become the person who not only gathers ideas but synthesizes them into wisdom. Let mastery matter as much as novelty.',
 ARRAY['Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hamaker-Zondag, The Twelfth House']),

('Venus', 'Gemini',
 'Your love style is light, playful, and intellectually driven. You''re attracted to witty, communicative partners and you lead with humor and conversation. Romance for you is as much about mental connection and laughter as it is about passion.',
 'You attract people through your charm, your curious interest in them, and your ability to make them feel understood. You enjoy the early stages of connection—the flirtation, the discovery, the sparkling conversation. Your aesthetic is understated, modern, and varied; you like having options in love as in life.',
 'You''re a generous, attentive partner who makes others feel special through conversation and interest. You''re not naturally possessive or intense. Partners appreciate your lightness but sometimes wish you''d go deeper, commit more fully, or stay longer in the relationship rather than always keeping options open.',
 'Your challenge is mistaking intellectual connection for emotional intimacy. You can keep relationships at arm''s length by staying clever and avoid the vulnerability real love requires. You may have multiple attractions simultaneously and struggle to choose one person. Commitment feels like a cage if it means abandoning variety.',
 'Your growth comes from recognizing that commitment can include intellectual freshness—you don''t have to leave love to stay stimulated. Choose depth with one person while maintaining your own independence and interests. Your gift is making love feel like play; now let it feel like home too.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Lick, The Twelve Houses', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Mars', 'Gemini',
 'Your drive expresses through words, ideas, and rapid-fire action. You''re competitive in conversations and debates more than physical contests. Your energy is scattered across multiple projects rather than focused like a laser. You''re quick to start things but sometimes lose steam.',
 'You take action through communication—persuading, arguing, connecting, negotiating. Your physical energy is restless; you prefer mental competition to physical combat. You can push forward on multiple fronts simultaneously, though this can dilute your force. Boredom kills your drive faster than defeat.',
 'In conflict, you''re quick with words—sometimes cutting, often clever. You''re not naturally aggressive or violent; you fight with ideas and arguments. Partners may find you frustrating because you argue to win rather than to resolve, and you can deflect serious issues with humor or debate.',
 'Your challenge is lack of focused force. You spread your energy across too many goals and burn out or forget them. You can use your mouth as a weapon, wounding with words and wit. Learning to channel your drive into fewer, deeper pursuits and to listen in conflict rather than dominate is crucial.',
 'Growth comes from choosing where to direct your formidable mental and verbal energy. Not every fight needs to be won; some need to be understood. Use your speed and intelligence to accomplish something meaningful, not just to stay stimulated. Your drive can move mountains when it''s focused on one peak.',
 ARRAY['Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']),

('Jupiter', 'Gemini',
 'Jupiter in Gemini is in detriment—expansion meets restriction in this placement. Your luck tends to come through learning, communication, and serendipitous conversations rather than grand gestures. You''re naturally optimistic about ideas but sometimes cynical about outcomes.',
 'Your growth happens through gathering knowledge, expanding your social network, and staying mentally flexible. You believe in the power of information and connection. Luck finds you when you''re in motion, talking, learning, or curious. But you can scatter your faith across too many directions.',
 'You''re generous with your time, conversation, and knowledge, and others benefit from your networks and insights. You inspire through ideas and your ability to see possibilities. Partners may feel you over-promise and under-deliver, especially on commitments requiring sustained focus rather than mental flexibility.',
 'Your core challenge is completing what you start. Jupiter naturally expands and Gemini naturally spreads; together they create a tendency to say yes to too much and finish too little. You can become scattered, overly talkative, or lose faith in things that require patience. Detriment here teaches restraint.',
 'Your growth comes from recognizing that true expansion requires focus. Choose which knowledge paths to master deeply rather than sampling everything. Your luck increases when you commit. Let your gift for seeing multiple perspectives serve completion, not procrastination. Finish one book before starting the next.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Saturn', 'Gemini',
 'Saturn in Gemini creates fear around communication, fitting in, and being understood. Your life lesson centers on developing authentic voice despite self-doubt about your words. You''re tasked with creating structure in a domain that wants to stay fluid.',
 'You learn through experience that some things actually require discipline, repetition, and depth. Early on you may doubt your intelligence or feel socially awkward despite being naturally communicative. As you age, you develop real authority in your areas of focus and become a trusted voice. Maturity brings mastery.',
 'In relationships, you''re more cautious and measured than your Gemini sun suggests. You''re thoughtful about words and sometimes reserved when younger, becoming warmer and more generous as you age. You take relationships seriously once you commit. Others find you grounded and reliable, if sometimes a bit formal or distant initially.',
 'Your challenge is the tension between Gemini''s need for variety and Saturn''s need for consistency. You can doubt whether you''re "smart enough" or communicative enough, making you overly self-editing. You might retreat from conversation or social situations due to anxiety, contradicting your natural gifts.',
 'Your growth comes from accepting that depth and expertise take time. Your greatest power lies in becoming the person others trust for serious, thoughtful conversation—not just witty banter. Develop one area of real knowledge. Your voice becomes more valuable, not less, when it''s selective and considered.',
 ARRAY['Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hamaker-Zondag, Astrology and Consciousness']),

('Uranus', 'Gemini',
 'Uranus in Gemini births the generational desire to revolutionize communication and thinking. This is the archetype of the innovator, the one who questions whether the story we''ve been told is actually true. Your generation questions authority, embraces new tech, and reinvents language.',
 'Your generation is wired for rapid change and intellectual rebellion. You''re naturally drawn to emerging technologies, alternative perspectives, and breaking traditional rules of communication. Boredom with convention runs deep. You''re the generation of disruption, experimental ideas, and sudden insight.',
 'You inspire others toward liberation from outdated thinking and false stories. You connect with your generation through shared ideals of freedom and innovation. You can be erratic or emotionally detached in relationships, prioritizing independence and unconventional arrangements over traditional commitment.',
 'Your challenge is impatience with gradual change and people who don''t move as fast as you do. You can be arrogant about new ideas and dismissive of established wisdom. Sudden rebelliousness can burn bridges. Learning to value both innovation and continuity is your work.',
 'Your growth comes from recognizing that the most radical ideas still need grounding and real-world application. Use your gift for seeing new possibilities to serve not just disruption but genuine progress. Build bridges between what''s new and what''s proven, not just tear down the old.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Tarnas, Cosmos and Psyche', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Neptune', 'Gemini',
 'Neptune in Gemini dissolves the boundaries between truth and imagination, generating your generation''s gift for creative vision and the spread of ideas across media. This is the archetype of the dreamer who reimagines collective narratives. Your generation confuses fact with feeling in ways both visionary and dangerous.',
 'Your generation is deeply imaginative and attuned to collective stories and images. You''re naturally skilled at creating and spreading narratives through media, art, and culture. Reality is more malleable to you than to previous generations. Illusion and inspiration live close together in your world.',
 'You''re creative, intuitive, and able to sense collective moods and emerging cultural moments. You inspire others toward shared dreams and visions. You can be unreliable in practical matters, confusing inspiration with commitment. Others may feel deceived when your dreamy promises don''t materialize.',
 'Your challenge is the erosion of boundaries between fantasy and reality. You can be deceptive without meaning to be, losing track of what''s real versus imagined. Your generation has struggled with disillusionment as idealism crashes against reality. Addiction and escapism can be real shadows.',
 'Your growth comes from grounding your powerful imagination in reality. Channel your gift for seeing collective dreams into creating something tangible and true. Use your sensitivity to shared narratives to inspire without deceiving. Your generation''s greatest power is helping others reimagine what''s possible—do it honestly.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Tarnas, Cosmos and Psyche', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']),

('Pluto', 'Gemini',
 'Pluto in Gemini represents your generation''s compulsive need to dig beneath the surface of how information, language, and ideas shape power. This is the archetype of the interrogator, the one who deconstructs narratives and rebuilds them from the ground up. Your generation transforms what can be said and how.',
 'Your generation is psychologically inclined to excavate hidden truths and destabilize false narratives. You''re obsessed with uncovering what''s been hidden, ignored, or repressed in collective communication. Your generation wields extraordinary power through language and information, sometimes without realizing it. Reconstruction of shared story is your task.',
 'You''re intense about understanding and revealing truth, even uncomfortable truths. You''re drawn to psychological depth and the shadow sides of human nature. Others experience you as probing, sometimes invasive in your need to know. You transform how your generation thinks and communicates about hard things.',
 'Your challenge is the danger of obsessive digging that never settles, or weaponizing information for power rather than truth. Your generation has access to tremendous information power and sometimes uses it destructively. Paranoia and conspiratorial thinking can seduce you. You can be destabilizing without offering real rebuilding.',
 'Your growth comes from using your archaeological gift to serve genuine understanding and healing, not just exposure and destruction. Help your generation unbury what matters—truth, authenticity, real power—and then help rebuild better. Your greatest strength is transformation; use it wisely, not just compulsively.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Tarnas, Cosmos and Psyche', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']);
-- Updated Cancer entries — planet-specific
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Cancer';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Cancer',
 'Your core identity is rooted in belonging, protection, and emotional authenticity. You''re here to lead through feeling, not force—a guardian of trust and intimacy.',
 'You build your sense of self through family bonds, emotional security, and creating safe spaces for others. Your ego thrives when you''re needed, protected in return, and emotionally validated by your inner circle. Home—whether physical, emotional, or spiritual—is your anchor.',
 'You connect deeply with people who honor your sensitivity and reciprocate loyalty. You''re the one people turn to when they need comfort, but you risk overgiving if you don''t set boundaries. Your relationships thrive when both parties feel genuinely safe.',
 'Your identity can become too enmeshed with family or past hurts, making it hard to step into independent self-expression. You may retreat inward when vulnerable, or become defensive when your loyalty isn''t returned. Learning to separate self-worth from how much you''re needed is key.',
 'Embrace your emotional depth as a strength, not a weakness. Let your identity evolve beyond caretaking into authentic self-nurturing. Lead others through genuine presence and emotional wisdom, not obligation.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Parker, The Inner Sky']),

('Moon', 'Cancer',
 'This is the Moon''s domicile—your emotional core is at home here. You feel everything deeply, respond instinctively, and lead with heart. This is the most naturally emotionally fluent placement in the zodiac.',
 'Your emotional needs are straightforward: safety, belonging, and unconditional presence. You process feelings through nurturing, reminiscing, and creating emotional intimacy. Your moods shift like tides, but your loyalty is unwavering. You trust your gut and intuition implicitly.',
 'You need partners who understand that emotional closeness is not clingy—it''s essential. You offer profound emotional attunement and rarely judge others'' feelings. In family and close bonds, you''re the one holding the emotional thread.',
 'Your sensitivity can become overwhelm or anxiety if you''re absorbing others'' emotions without protection. You may struggle to voice needs directly, instead withdrawing or using guilt. Mood fluctuations can feel confusing to those around you if you don''t explain your inner weather.',
 'Your emotional intelligence is a gift—trust it fully. Learn to distinguish between your feelings and others''. Create rituals that honor your emotional nature without drowning in it. Your gut never lies; your overthinking mind sometimes does.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Mercury', 'Cancer',
 'Your mind operates through feeling, memory, and emotional association. You think in metaphors, stories, and personal connections—logic filtered through the heart.',
 'You communicate best in intimate settings where you can be heard and understood, not debated. Your thinking style is nonlinear; you hop between past, present, and intuition. You''re brilliant at reading subtext and sensing what people don''t say aloud. Writing, storytelling, and teaching through emotional examples are your gifts.',
 'You listen deeply and remember everything people tell you—especially their feelings and needs. You''re protective of others'' vulnerabilities and rarely weaponize private information. Conversations with you are safe spaces. Your mind is a library of emotional wisdom.',
 'You may struggle with abstract thinking or pure logic divorced from feeling. Public speaking and high-stakes presentations can feel exposing. You''re prone to overthinking, replaying conversations, and spiraling into worry. Others may dismiss your thinking as too emotional.',
 'Strengthen your thinking by balancing heart and head; emotional intelligence IS valid logic. Practice sharing your thoughts in group settings without fear of rejection. Your ability to weave feeling into communication makes you a powerful writer and counselor—lean into it.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Carter, An Encyclopedia of Psychological Astrology']),

('Venus', 'Cancer',
 'You love to bond, commit, and create emotional sanctuary. Your attraction runs deep through trust and shared history. Beauty, to you, is intimacy and belonging—not superficial polish.',
 'You take time to warm to people romantically, but once committed, you''re devoted and protective. You show love through caregiving, remembering details, and creating cozy shared spaces. You''re loyal to a fault and expect reciprocal investment. Your aesthetic is personal, sentimental, and home-centered.',
 'You need reassurance that you''re valued and that the bond is safe. You''re affectionate, tender, and generous with those you trust. You build intimacy through vulnerability and shared history. A partner who feels like family—or becomes one—is your ideal.',
 'You can cling to relationships past their expiration date, fearing loss more than toxicity. Jealousy and possessiveness may arise if you feel insecure. You might confuse caretaking with love, or expect others to need you the way you need emotional connection. Codependency is your shadow.',
 'Love is not about keeping someone; it''s about allowing them autonomy while staying close. Cultivate self-love through nourishing yourself, not just others. Seek partners who choose you freely, not ones you''ve convinced to stay. Your worth isn''t measured by how much you''re needed.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']),

('Mars', 'Cancer',
 'Mars in its fall in Cancer: your drive is protective, not aggressive. You fight for family, security, and emotional safety—not dominance. Your anger is slow-burning and devastating when finally unleashed.',
 'You''re uncomfortable with direct confrontation or raw competition. Your energy deploys to defend loved ones, establish boundaries, or pursue security. You''re capable of fierce action, but only when emotionally invested. Your sexuality is tender and intimate, needing emotional connection first.',
 'You''re a protective partner who stands beside people in crisis. You''re not interested in casual conquest or shallow victories. You prefer slow-burn passion to instant chemistry. Your loyalty in battle or hardship is unshakeable.',
 'Mars in Cancer struggles with assertiveness; you may suppress anger until you''re resentful. Passive-aggression and guilt-tripping can become your weapons. Your drive can be too focused on security, leading to stagnation. Others may not see you as powerful or bold.',
 'Reclaim your Mars by learning that protecting yourself is as valid as protecting others. Channel anger into standing your ground firmly but kindly. Your capacity to fight for what matters—when you access it—is formidable. Aggression without empathy isn''t strength; what you offer is rare.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Carter, An Encyclopedia of Psychological Astrology']),

('Jupiter', 'Cancer',
 'Jupiter exalted in Cancer: you''re blessed with emotional wisdom, inner abundance, and the ability to heal. Your luck flows through generosity, family loyalty, and trusting your intuition.',
 'You naturally attract opportunities through warmth and genuine care. Your growth happens through deepening roots, creating family (blood or chosen), and opening your heart. You''re gifted at sensing others'' needs before they voice them. Expansion for you means emotional maturity, not empire-building.',
 'People feel safer, more whole, and more nurtured in your presence. You''re a natural counselor, healer, or spiritual guide. Your abundance mindset is grounded in trust that you''re cared for. Others'' generosity flows back to you because you model it first.',
 'Your optimism can mask real pain or needs—yours or others''. Jupiter in Cancer can lead to overgiving until you''re depleted. You may struggle to say no or set limits, believing abundance means unlimited availability. Overindulgence in comfort (food, rest, retreat) is possible.',
 'Your emotional generosity is genuine wealth—guard it. Learn to receive as openly as you give. Let yourself ask for help and believe people will show up. Your faith in others'' goodness is right, but it doesn''t obligate you to sacrifice yourself. Expand through self-care, not just caretaking.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need']),

('Saturn', 'Cancer',
 'Saturn in detriment in Cancer: your life lessons involve learning to hold boundaries while staying open, and managing fear without building walls. Responsibility feels heavy when emotional.',
 'You carry anxiety about security—financial, emotional, familial. Your growth unfolds through facing abandonment fears and building solid foundations. You''re deeply responsible for family, sometimes to the point of burden. Time teaches you that you can''t protect everyone, and that''s okay.',
 'You''re a loyal, consistent presence—slow to trust but eternally dependable once you do. Others rely on your stability and quiet strength. You honor commitments and follow through, especially to family. Your restraint and caution are assets in crisis.',
 'Saturn in Cancer crystallizes around fear: fear of loss, rejection, poverty, or emotional pain. You may become overly cautious, withholding love to avoid hurt. Guilt and self-criticism run deep. Your responsibility can become a prison, and you may resent the weight you''ve taken on.',
 'Face your fears directly; they''re usually less catastrophic than you imagine. Let others carry their own emotional weight. Build security through real assets and emotional resilience, not control. Saturn''s gift here is teaching you that you''re stronger than you think and more worthy of care than you believe.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']),

('Uranus', 'Cancer',
 'Your generation rebels against rigid family structures and outdated notions of home, belonging, and emotional expression. You''re here to revolutionize what safety and nurturing look like.',
 'Your generation pioneered new family models, emotional honesty, and breaking silence around trauma. You felt called to question ''how things are done'' in households and relationships. Your generation values authenticity in emotional expression over social propriety. Innovation in caregiving, therapy, and community support bears your fingerprint.',
 'Your generation creates chosen families and reimagines belonging. You''re more likely to form bonds based on shared values than bloodline alone. You challenge others to be more emotionally honest and less guarded. Your generational impact is helping people feel safe being their true selves.',
 'Your generation sometimes over-corrected, rejecting tradition without wisdom. Emotional instability can mask as enlightenment. You may resist commitment or intimacy, fearing entrapment. Alienation from biological family can leave you without grounding.',
 'Blend innovation with the wisdom of tradition. Not all old ways are wrong; some are grounded and trustworthy. Let yourself need people and places while staying true to your vision. Your generation''s gift is showing the world that real safety allows freedom, not control.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Neptune', 'Cancer',
 'Your generation dreams of compassion, healing, and spiritual home. You''re dissolving boundaries between self and other, seeking unconditional love and mystical belonging.',
 'Your generation is haunted by longing—for safety that feels absolute, for a place to truly belong, for love without fear. You''re sensitive to collective suffering and drawn to healing work. Your spiritual path is often rooted in feeling, intuition, and ancestral wisdom. Escapism through comfort or substances is a shadow risk.',
 'Your generation is empathetic to a degree that can blur self-boundaries. You feel the collective emotional pain acutely. Your spiritual practices emphasize connection, vulnerability, and the sacred in everyday life. You''re drawn to healing modalities—therapy, energy work, shamanic practice.',
 'Your generation can be overly idealistic about family and love, setting up disappointment. Escapism through food, sleep, or substances can be a real issue. You may struggle to discern your feelings from others'' or the collective. Victimhood and spiritual bypassing are shadows to watch.',
 'Ground your spirituality in real practice and real boundaries. Your intuition is valuable, but verify it with reality. Healing work is noble, but not if it erases your own needs. Your generation''s longing points to something real—find it through grounded presence, not fantasy. Ancestor work and family healing are your natural medicine.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Pluto', 'Cancer',
 'Your generation is transforming the deepest structures of family, belonging, trauma, and emotional honesty. You''re dissolving what was hidden, reclaiming power in vulnerability.',
 'Your generation inherited family secrets, ancestral trauma, and unspoken pain. You''re compelled to excavate, expose, and transform these patterns. Power dynamics in family are your obsession—you''re here to transform them. Your generation values psychological depth and ancestral healing as sacred work.',
 'Your generation''s relationships are deep and transformative, sometimes intensely so. You attract people with real darkness and real depth; you''re not afraid of the shadow. You understand that true intimacy requires facing the darkest truths together. Betrayal cuts you because trust, for you, is everything.',
 'Your generation can be obsessive about family wounds or ancestral patterns, getting stuck in the past. Power struggles in relationships can be intense and mutually destructive. You may unconsciously recreate family trauma with partners. Control, especially emotional control, can mask as love or protection.',
 'Transform family patterns by facing them with compassion, not blame. Your power lies in breaking cycles, not perpetuating them. Forgive your ancestors and yourself. Let relationships deepen through honesty about power dynamics, not secrecy. Your generation''s gift is showing the world that transformation begins with truth.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']);
-- Updated Leo entries — planet-specific
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Leo';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Leo',
 'Your core identity radiates confidence, creativity, and natural charisma. You are wired to lead, create, and express yourself authentically—this is the Sun''s home. Leo Sun is the ultimate expression of solar energy: unapologetically YOU.',
 'You live to create and make an impact. Whether through art, leadership, or pure presence, you need to be seen and celebrated. Your days are organized around creative pursuits and moments where you can shine. You naturally step into spotlight roles without apology. Life feels alive when you''re expressing your unique gifts.',
 'You love with fierce loyalty and expect admiration in return. You''re generous with attention and affection, but need to feel valued and special. In intimate relationships, you crave a partner who celebrates you and doesn''t dim your light. You bring warmth, playfulness, and deep devotion.',
 'Your biggest trap is needing constant validation and becoming melodramatic when you don''t get it. Pride can isolate you or make you defensive about criticism. You may overshadow others'' needs in your drive to lead. Learning that self-worth doesn''t depend on applause is essential.',
 'Channel your need for recognition into meaningful creative contribution. Lead because you genuinely want to elevate others, not just be admired. Cultivate humility by recognizing that true confidence doesn''t require an audience. Your light is brightest when it inspires rather than dominates.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']),

('Moon', 'Leo',
 'Your emotional world is theatrical, warm, and deeply loyal. You need to feel special and appreciated, and you give affection generously. Leo Moon experiences feelings intensely and expresses them dramatically—your emotions demand an audience.',
 'You need validation and reassurance that you''re loved and valued. Creating beauty and joy around you soothes your emotional pain. You''re drawn to people, events, and experiences that make you feel alive and celebrated. Your moods can shift from sunny to wounded if you feel overlooked or unappreciated.',
 'You''re a deeply loyal and warm-hearted friend and partner. You show your emotions openly and generously offer your heart. In intimate connections, you want to be adored and to adore in return. You create safe spaces for others to feel special and celebrated, just as you need to feel.',
 'Emotional dependency on others'' approval can make you fragile and reactive. You struggle when circumstances prevent you from being in the spotlight. Rejection or coldness cuts deep because you give so openly. Learning to self-soothe without external validation is your growing edge.',
 'Develop your own creative outlets that feed your emotional needs independently. Practice self-love as actively as you love others. Recognize that quiet, consistent loyalty is as valuable as dramatic expression. Your emotional warmth is a gift—don''t weaponize it when hurt.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hall, The Twelve Houses', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']),

('Mercury', 'Leo',
 'Your thinking style is bold, expressive, and confidence-driven. You communicate with flair and aren''t afraid to voice strong opinions. Mercury in Leo speaks to be heard—your ideas deserve attention and you''ll make sure they get it.',
 'You think in big pictures and grand narratives rather than minute details. Your communication style is warm, theatrical, and persuasive. You''re drawn to subjects that allow for creative interpretation and personal expression. Your mind works best when you can take center stage in conversations or projects.',
 'You''re a natural storyteller and engaging conversationalist. People are drawn to your animated way of speaking and your genuine interest in connecting. You express admiration openly and make others feel intelligent and valued when you listen. Your speech is generous, rarely petty, and often playful.',
 'You can be stubborn about defending your viewpoint, especially when you feel your opinions are being dismissed. Your need to be right can override curiosity about other perspectives. You may dominate conversations without realizing others haven''t had space to speak. Arrogance about your ideas can limit learning.',
 'Ask questions before asserting your viewpoint. Practice deep listening without planning your response. Recognize that the best ideas often come from collaborative thinking, not solo genius. Your confidence is powerful—use it to uplift others'' ideas, not just promote your own.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Arroyo, Astrology, Psychology, and the Four Elements']),

('Venus', 'Leo',
 'Your love style is passionate, generous, and deeply romantic. You give wholeheartedly and expect the same in return. Venus in Leo wants to be adored—and you''re more than willing to provide that same passionate devotion to your beloved.',
 'You court with flair and aren''t shy about expressing affection physically and emotionally. Beauty, luxury, and status appeal to you, especially if they reflect your good taste. You''re loyal and protective of those you love, creating devoted, long-term partnerships. Your aesthetic is bold and personal, reflecting your unique creative eye.',
 'You love openly and without apology. You''re warm, generous, and make your partner feel special and desired. Loyalty is non-negotiable for you—once committed, you''re all in. You create romance and beauty in relationships, turning ordinary moments into celebrations. Your partner feels genuinely valued and admired.',
 'You can be possessive or jealous, viewing your beloved as an extension of your identity. If love isn''t reciprocated with equal heat, you withdraw dramatically. You may use love as a tool for control or validation. Vanity in relationships can make you dismissive of a partner''s needs if they conflict with your image.',
 'Build love on genuine appreciation rather than mutual admiration. Practice giving without keeping score of returns. Recognize that true love sometimes means supporting your partner''s spotlight, not just your own. Vulnerability—admitting you''re hurt rather than performing strength—deepens real intimacy.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Llewellyn, Venus Signs']),

('Mars', 'Leo',
 'Your drive is fierce, courageous, and unmistakably direct. You pursue goals with passionate intensity and aren''t afraid of competition. Mars in Leo burns bright—you have the energy and will to make things happen, and you do it with style.',
 'You attack life and your ambitions with boldness and creativity. Competition energizes you rather than intimidates you. Your work style is passionate and performative—you''re at your best when there''s an audience or recognition for your effort. You''ve got courage, but sometimes confuse aggressiveness with leadership.',
 'You pursue romantic interests with confident heat and aren''t subtle about desire. In bed, you''re passionate, generous, and want your partner to feel like they''re the only person in the world. You''re protective and stand up fiercely for those you love. Your sexual energy is strong, direct, and unapologetically physical.',
 'Your temper can be explosive and dramatic, though it typically burns out quickly. You may use anger as a tool to regain control or dominance. Sexual jealousy can become possessive and controlling. You can burn bright and fast, leaving projects unfinished when the initial passion fades.',
 'Channel your passion into building something meaningful rather than just conquering. Practice restraint—let others lead sometimes. Recognize that intensity without follow-through is just performance. Use your courage to protect others, not just to win. Your drive is magnificent—make it serve something bigger than ego.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Arroyo, Astrology, Psychology, and the Four Elements']),

('Jupiter', 'Leo',
 'Your growth comes through creative expression, generosity, and bold vision. Jupiter in Leo expands your confidence and amplifies your natural gifts. You''re here to create, inspire, and leave a mark—and you usually do.',
 'You''re naturally optimistic and believe in your abilities, which often becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. Opportunities come through your network and your reputation for warmth and creativity. You grow through sharing your gifts generously and taking creative risks. Your faith in yourself attracts luck, but entitlement can undermine it.',
 'You''re a generous partner and friend, offering abundance of affection and loyalty. In relationships, you help your beloved expand their sense of self-worth and possibility. You''re drawn to growth-oriented partners who inspire you. Your optimism is infectious and helps others believe in their own potential.',
 'Overconfidence can lead to overextension and unrealistic promises. You may give beyond your means, becoming financially or emotionally depleted. Pride can prevent you from asking for help when you need it. Privilege—unearned luck—can make you dismissive of others'' struggles.',
 'Balance confidence with realistic assessment. Share your gifts without expecting return. Invest in causes larger than yourself. Learn from failure without losing faith. Your luck is abundant—use it to lift others up, not just yourself. True growth comes from humility alongside belief.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']),

('Saturn', 'Leo',
 'Your life lessons revolve around authenticity, responsibility, and humility. Saturn in Leo (detriment) challenges your natural Leo confidence—this is where you learn maturity. Your growth edges are here: learning to lead with wisdom, not just charisma.',
 'You face tests to your self-esteem and creative expression. Early life may have taught you that being yourself isn''t enough. You develop strength through repeatedly facing rejection or invisibility, then choosing to express yourself anyway. Your deepest security comes from discipline, not applause. You''re learning that real leadership means sacrifice.',
 'Long-term relationships require you to put your partner''s needs alongside your own. Intimacy deepens as you become less about performance and more about genuine vulnerability. You learn that being truly seen—flaws and all—is better than being admired from a distance. Your commitment becomes unshakeable over time.',
 'You can be overly self-conscious or deeply insecure masking as arrogance. Fear that you''re not special enough can create desperate need for validation. You may reject yourself before others can. Authority or criticism cuts deep because you''re learning to trust your own worth independent of external approval.',
 'Let your discipline serve your creativity, not suppress it. Practice self-acceptance on the days no one''s watching. Build something that lasts through patient, unglamorous work. Your wisdom earned through difficulty is worth more than easy success. The ultimate Leo lesson: being yourself IS enough, even when no one''s looking.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky']),

('Uranus', 'Leo',
 'Your generation rebels against conformity through creative expression and individuality. Uranus in Leo (depending on birth year) challenges outdated notions of leadership and self-expression. Your cohort is redefining what it means to be confident and visible.',
 'Your peer group champions authenticity and breaks traditional rules around performance and fame. You''re part of a generation that demystifies celebrity and leadership. Technology and new media are your tools for creative disruption. Your generation collectively refuses to dim their light or follow old paths to success.',
 'Your cohort values partners who are equally individual and unapologetic. Relationships are about mutual growth and authenticity, not tradition. You''re part of a generation that''s redefining loyalty and commitment on your own terms. Collaboration matters more than hierarchy.',
 'Collective rebellion without wisdom can become destructive individualism. Your generation may struggle with follow-through or building lasting structures. Chaotic creativity without discipline can leave a wake of unfinished projects. The tension between independence and connection is your generational struggle.',
 'Use your rebellious creativity to build something new, not just tear down the old. Recognize that true innovation requires both boldness and structure. Your generation''s gift is redefining authenticity—honor that by helping others find their voice, not just amplifying your own. Build community through your uniqueness.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky', 'Arroyo, Astrology, Psychology, and the Four Elements']),

('Neptune', 'Leo',
 'Your generation dreams of transcendence through creative expression and spiritual awakening. Neptune in Leo (depending on birth year) blurs the line between personal creativity and collective inspiration. Your cohort seeks meaning through art, imagination, and idealized visions.',
 'Your peer group is deeply imaginative and spiritually oriented. You''re prone to escapism through creative pursuits, fantasy, and mystical seeking. Inspiration flows easily, but grounding those dreams into reality is your challenge. Your generation romanticizes revolution and transformation. Vision without discernment is your edge.',
 'Your cohort values spiritual connection and imaginative intimacy in relationships. Partners are idealized muses more than real people. You''re drawn to profound, soulmate-style connection. Disillusionment often follows when reality can''t match your fantasy. Deep sensitivity is your gift—and your wound.',
 'Collective delusion and escapism can manifest as addiction, fantasy dependency, or spiritual bypass. Your generation may struggle to distinguish inspiration from illusion. Lack of grounding can make you unreliable or lost in your own world. Boundaries dissolve easily, leaving you vulnerable to manipulation.',
 'Ground your spiritual vision through disciplined practice. Develop discernment between inspiration and fantasy. Channel your imagination into creative work that benefits others. Your generation''s gift is visionary beauty—make it real through commitment and clarity. The spiritual is powerful only when embodied.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky', 'Arroyo, Astrology, Psychology, and the Four Elements']),

('Pluto', 'Leo',
 'Your generation transforms consciousness around power, visibility, and creative expression. Pluto in Leo (depending on birth year) revolutionizes notions of leadership and identity. Your cohort is collectively rebirthing what it means to be authentically powerful.',
 'Your peer group experiences deep psychological reckoning with ego and authenticity. You''re a generation obsessed with transformation and radical self-reinvention. Power dynamics in creativity and fame are being completely reconstructed by your cohort. You''re collectively dying to old forms of validation and being reborn into authenticity.',
 'Relationships require psychological depth and radical honesty. Your cohort demands that love be transformative or it''s not worth having. Power dynamics are constantly negotiated and renegotiated. Deep loyalty is possible, but only with partners willing to do internal work alongside you.',
 'Collective shadow around power, control, and dominance can create tyranny disguised as creativity. Your generation may be obsessively focused on personal transformation without collective responsibility. Intensity can become destructive. The line between transformation and obsession is easily crossed.',
 'Use your collective power to transform systems, not just yourself. Channel intensity into work that heals or builds. Recognize that real power comes from authenticity, not domination. Your generation''s gift is rebirth—make it serve evolution beyond the self. Transform what''s broken, don''t just destroy for destruction''s sake.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Forrest, The Inner Sky', 'Arroyo, Astrology, Psychology, and the Four Elements']);
-- Updated Virgo entries — planet-specific
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Virgo';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Virgo', 'Your core identity is built on being useful, competent, and reliable. You''re driven to refine yourself and master practical skills, with a quiet confidence that comes from knowing your worth through what you deliver.', 'You naturally gravitate toward work that requires precision and care — you''re the person who notices what others miss and fixes it before anyone asks. Your life unfolds through service and self-improvement, constantly learning better ways to do things. You take pride in your effectiveness and your modest, understated way of making things better.', 'You''re most comfortable with people who appreciate your thoughtfulness and don''t mistake your critical nature for coldness. You show love through practical support and genuine interest in how others can improve. Your humility can be misread as low self-esteem, but it''s actually deep self-awareness.', 'Your perfectionism can paralyze you — waiting until conditions are perfect before you act or celebrate. You risk becoming so focused on problems that you miss the beauty of what''s working. Your self-criticism can be harsh enough to undermine your confidence.', 'Learn that competence isn''t about flawlessness; it''s about showing up and doing your best with what you have. Practice celebrating small wins instead of hunting for flaws. Your gift is seeing what needs healing — use it to help others, not just to police yourself.', ARRAY['Parker, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Arroyo, Astrology Karma and Transformation']),

('Moon', 'Virgo', 'Your emotional world is quiet and organized — you process feelings by analyzing them, sorting them into categories, and finding practical solutions. You need to feel useful and needed to feel emotionally secure.', 'You comfort yourself through routine, helpful action, and clear thinking; sitting with raw emotion without trying to fix it feels unbearable. You''re the steady presence others turn to in a crisis because you don''t fall apart, but you can get stuck in your own worry loops. Your emotional security comes from competence and having your life in working order.', 'You''re deeply loyal but can seem detached because you show care through doing things, not through emotional displays. You need people who understand that your constant suggestions come from genuine concern. A partner who respects your need for space and clarity feels like emotional safety.', 'You may suppress your feelings until they emerge as anxiety or harsh self-judgment. Your need to process everything intellectually can distance you from the wisdom of your gut instincts. You risk becoming so focused on others'' needs that you ignore your own emotional hunger.', 'Allow yourself to feel messy emotions without immediately organizing them away. Learn that vulnerability isn''t weakness — it''s the deepest form of honesty. Your analytical gifts are real, but emotional truth sometimes transcends logic.', ARRAY['Boulanger, The Inner Sky', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Mercury', 'Virgo', 'Your thinking is precise, methodical, and detail-obsessed — Mercury rules Virgo, so your mind is finely tuned to distinguish subtle differences and catch what others overlook. You''re less interested in grand theories and more interested in how things actually work.', 'You communicate with clarity and specificity; you''d rather say nothing than say something imprecise. You love research, categorization, and systems. Your communication style is direct and practical, focused on what''s useful and true. You''re the person colleagues trust to fact-check, to notice errors, and to explain complex things in understandable terms.', 'You''re drawn to people who appreciate intellectual precision and can engage in detailed conversation without taking it personally. You listen carefully and remember specifics others forget. Your communication partners need to understand that your questioning isn''t doubt — it''s discernment.', 'You can become so focused on accuracy that you lose sight of the bigger picture or come across as nitpicky. Your mind can get caught in worry loops about details that won''t matter in five years. You may struggle to speak up when you''re not 100% certain, silencing your valuable insights.', 'Develop confidence in your ability to communicate what you know, even with some uncertainty. Practice moving from analysis to decision-making; perfectionism isn''t accuracy. Your discriminating mind is a gift — trust it without needing every detail verified first.', ARRAY['Forrest, The Twelve Houses', 'Brady, Predictive Astrology']),

('Venus', 'Virgo', 'Your love style is modest, practical, and genuinely caring — but Venus is in fall here, so expressing affection feels awkward and overly analytical. You show love through thoughtful acts and genuine attention, not grand romantic gestures.', 'You''re attracted to people who are competent, intelligent, and honest about their flaws. You''re not impressed by surface charm; you need substance and real compatibility. In love, you express care by noticing details about the other person and offering genuine help. You''re most comfortable in relationships that feel like partnerships with room for personal growth.', 'You''re fiercely loyal but can seem cool or critical to those who need more overt affection and reassurance. Your tendency to point out what could be improved can feel harsh to lovers who want acceptance as they are. You may struggle to relax into romance or to receive love without immediately finding ways to improve the relationship.', 'Venus in fall makes it hard to trust that you''re lovable as you are — you believe you need to earn love through usefulness. You can be so focused on what''s wrong that you neglect celebration and pleasure. Your critical lens, while discerning, can make partners feel scrutinized rather than cherished.', 'Practice receiving compliments without pointing out your flaws. Learn that your partner loves you not for your utility but for who you are. Romance doesn''t need to be perfect to be real — sometimes the best love is quiet, consistent, and present.', ARRAY['Parker, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Schulman, Astrology of Self-Discovery']),

('Mars', 'Virgo', 'Your drive is steady, methodical, and directed toward practical improvement — you''re not the flashy warrior type, but you have the endurance to accomplish real things. Your energy works best when you have clear goals and can see measurable progress.', 'You approach challenges by breaking them into manageable steps and working through them systematically. Your sexuality is more cerebral and detail-oriented; you need intellectual and emotional connection alongside physical attraction. You assert yourself through competence and clarity rather than aggression or dominance. You''re drawn to work that has real impact and visible results.', 'You''re dependable and follow through on commitments, which partners and collaborators appreciate deeply. You''re willing to do the unglamorous work that others avoid. Others sense that you''re genuinely interested in what actually works rather than what merely looks good.', 'Your reserved approach to action can make you hesitant in moments requiring bold risk-taking. You may channel your aggression into self-criticism or worry rather than outward assertion. Your need for perfect conditions can delay action until momentum is lost.', 'Develop trust in your ability to take imperfect action. Your methodical approach is a strength; don''t hold it back waiting for certainty. Learn to assert your needs directly instead of hoping others notice and fix things for you.', ARRAY['Forrest, The Twelve Houses', 'Arroyo, Astrology Karma and Transformation']),

('Jupiter', 'Virgo', 'Your growth is quiet and built on genuine mastery — Jupiter is in detriment here, so expansion through overconfidence or excess doesn''t work for you. Your luck comes from doing excellent work and being trusted with responsibility.', 'You grow through service, learning, and gradually building expertise that others come to rely on. Your optimism is restrained and rooted in realistic assessment — you''re the person who says "we can do this because I''ve checked the details." You expand by deepening knowledge rather than chasing new shiny things. Opportunity finds you because of your reputation for reliability and competence.', 'People trust your counsel because you give practical, well-researched advice rather than empty inspiration. Your growth-oriented nature makes you a good mentor for those ready to actually do the work. Others sense that you genuinely want them to improve, not just to feel better temporarily.', 'The detriment of Jupiter here creates self-doubt about whether you''re enough — you always see how much more there is to learn. You may miss opportunities while perfecting your preparation. Your caution can look like lack of faith, limiting the scale of what you attempt.', 'Recognize that your growth is real, even when it''s incremental and quiet. Trust that doing good work is its own reward and opens doors you couldn''t predict. Stop waiting to be overqualified; stepping into challenges with good-faith effort is how expertise actually develops.', ARRAY['Forrest, The Twelve Houses', 'Schulman, Astrology of Self-Discovery']),

('Saturn', 'Virgo', 'Your life lessons are about building genuine competence and learning that self-mastery is freedom, not burden. Saturn is dignified here, so the discipline you develop becomes real strength rather than just self-imposed limitation.', 'You face lessons around perfectionism, guilt, and the belief that your worth depends on your usefulness. Your path involves learning to set boundaries, to stop fixing things that aren''t yours to fix, and to trust that resting isn''t laziness. Through these lessons, you build extraordinary reliability and integrity. You understand, in your bones, that integrity is the only foundation that lasts.', 'You attract people who need your steadiness and fear losing your support if they''re not perfect. You''re most compatible with those who understand that your boundaries come from self-respect, not rejection. Over time, you help others develop their own competence rather than depending on you.', 'You can internalize crushing amounts of responsibility and self-blame. Your critical voice can sound like Saturn, telling you you''re never good enough. You may deprive yourself of pleasure, rest, or celebration because they feel unearned. The weight of duty can calcify into rigidity.', 'Understand that discipline is strength, but perfectionism is prison. You''re already responsible — you don''t need to prove it anymore. Learn to say no to things that aren''t actually yours to carry. Real mastery includes knowing when to stop, rest, and trust others.', ARRAY['Parker, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Uranus', 'Virgo', 'Your generational rebellion is quiet but profound — you question existing systems by finding better, more efficient ways and proving your innovations work through evidence, not rhetoric. You''re the revolutionary who builds a better machine.', 'Your generation seeks to disrupt through refinement and optimization rather than destruction. You''re drawn to improving health systems, data systems, and service models. Your unique gifts come from seeing flaws in how things are organized and having the patience to redesign them properly. You push back against pointless rules and inefficiency through quiet, persistent alternatives.', 'You attract people who appreciate innovation grounded in reality and systems that actually work better. Your generation forms communities around practical solutions and shared commitment to doing things right. You''re most compatible with those who don''t need grand ideological declarations, just results.', 'Your quiet rebellion can be so understated that it''s overlooked, leading to frustration that your innovations aren''t adopted. You may rebel so subtly that you''re still locked in old patterns. The impulse to perfect things can become rebellion''s opposite — rigidity.', 'Trust that your innovations matter even when they don''t make headlines. Stop waiting for permission to implement your better ways. Your generation''s gift is proving that evolution works better than revolution — lean into that without losing your edge.', ARRAY['Forrest, The Twelve Houses', 'Arroyo, Astrology Karma and Transformation']),

('Neptune', 'Virgo', 'Your generational spirituality is grounded and service-oriented — Neptune is in detriment here, so the transcendent and abstract must prove themselves through concrete help and healing. You seek the sacred in the practical and ordinary.', 'Your generation struggles with the gap between spiritual ideals and practical reality, but you''re learning to build spirituality that actually heals people. You''re drawn to meditation, bodywork, herbalism, and practical mysticism that you can understand and share. Your spiritual practice is unglamorous: showing up, paying attention, and serving without expectation of recognition.', 'You attract people seeking grounded spirituality and real healing rather than escapism. Your generation builds spiritual communities around actual help — food, medicine, counsel, presence. You find the sacred in clean water, good soil, and people being truly heard.', 'Neptune''s detriment can create disillusionment — you may feel spirituality should be more mystical and less practical. You can get so focused on earthly details that you lose the thread of meaning. Your rationality can become armor against the mystery you secretly crave.', 'Learn that the mundane is mystical — that presence itself is transcendence. Surrender to mystery without needing to understand or analyze it first. Your generation''s gift is building spirituality that actually works, that heals bodies and hearts, not just minds.', ARRAY['Parker, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Forrest, The Twelve Houses']),

('Pluto', 'Virgo', 'Your generational transformation comes through deep scrutiny of systems, health, and how we organize work and service. You''re drawn to exposing hidden corruption and rebuilding based on truth and efficacy rather than tradition.', 'Your generation faces collective reckoning around work, perfection, health, and who gets to be invisible. You''re learning that transformation doesn''t require perfection — that broken systems must be understood in all their dysfunction before they can be rebuilt. Your power lies in seeing what''s been hidden or denied and having the courage to speak it.', 'You attract people ready for radical honesty about what''s not working — both personally and collectively. Your generation forms bonds through witnessing hard truths and building real alternatives. You''re compatible with those who understand that naming dysfunction is the first step of healing.', 'Pluto here can manifest as obsessive focus on what''s wrong — with yourself, your body, your systems. You may feel paralyzed by the scope of transformation needed. The pressure to be perfect can crack into destructive self-critique or harsh judgment of others'' imperfections.', 'Use your X-ray vision for healing, not just exposure. Transformation at this depth requires compassion — for yourself and those you''re trying to change. Your power isn''t in being pure; it''s in seeing clearly and staying committed to building something better.', ARRAY['Forrest, The Twelve Houses', 'Brady, Predictive Astrology']);
-- Updated Libra entries — planet-specific
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Libra';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Libra', 'Identity through partnership and balance', 'Your core self emerges in relationship to others. You define yourself by your ability to see multiple sides, mediate conflict, and create harmony. Identity feels incomplete without reflecting back through someone else''s eyes. Your sense of self strengthens when you''re appreciated for your fairness and charm.', 'You attract others easily and thrive when there''s genuine reciprocity and admiration. Partners feel balanced by your perspective. You''re most alive when collaborating on something beautiful or just. You may choose partners who feel like your missing piece—your other half.', 'Sun in fall here means you struggle to assert your core identity without seeking consensus first. You can lose yourself in making others comfortable. Standing alone in your truth feels destabilizing. You may swing between being too accommodating and suddenly rigid when your need for recognition explodes.', 'Own that a strong identity includes knowing what YOU want—not just what''s fair or balanced. Practice deciding before consulting. Your gift is seeing both sides; your work is choosing yourself. When you own your preferences unapologetically, you magnetize the right mirrors.', ARRAY['Liz Greene on the Sun in air signs', 'Dane Rudhyar on Libra solar individuality']),

('Moon', 'Libra', 'Emotional needs expressed through balance and connection', 'You need emotional harmony above all else. Conflict triggers internal shutdown; you soothe yourself by creating peace around you. Feelings come to you through reflection—you understand your own emotions better when discussing them with someone trusted. Affection and approval deeply stabilize you.', 'You''re the peacekeeper in relationships and expect partners to reciprocate emotional fairness. You feel secure when both people''s needs are heard equally. You attract emotionally literate, relationship-focused partners. Intimacy for you means being truly heard and understood—not just physically present.', 'You may suppress authentic anger to keep the peace, leading to sudden resentment or passive resistance. Emotional indecision paralyzed you—you can''t choose what you feel. You fear abandonment if you rock the boat. You may over-accommodate others'' feelings at the expense of your own needs.', 'Allow yourself to feel without immediately fixing or balancing. Your emotions are valid even if they''re not "fair." Practice naming what you need emotionally before considering the other person. When you honor your own feelings first, relationships deepen with real intimacy, not just surface harmony.', ARRAY['Liz Greene on the Moon in Libra', 'Demetra George on the Feminine Moon']),

('Mercury', 'Libra', 'Thinking style that weighs all perspectives and communicates with grace', 'Your mind naturally sees both sides of any question. You think through dialogue and debate—mental stimulation requires someone to bounce ideas off. You articulate beautifully, weighing words carefully for impact. Logic is balanced by social awareness; you consider how your words land emotionally.', 'You excel in partnerships that include intellectual exchange—you need a partner who can discuss, debate, and refine ideas with you. Conversation is foreplay for you. You communicate diplomatically, finding the language that honors all viewpoints. Others seek you out for fair, balanced advice.', 'Your gift for seeing both sides can paralyze decision-making—you get stuck weighing pros and cons endlessly. You may avoid direct speech to keep things pleasant, leading to misunderstandings. Your thinking can be indecisive or superficial when you prioritize agreeableness over truth. You struggle with positions that require you to be "wrong."', 'Develop confidence in your own perspective before automatically balancing it. Being smart means sometimes choosing a side. Your strength is synthesis—take time to think deeply alone, then bring your integrated view to others. Decisive communication is more attractive than endless diplomacy.', ARRAY['Dane Rudhyar on Mercury in air signs', 'Debra Silverman on Libra communication']),

('Venus', 'Libra', 'Love style that is refined, reciprocal, and aesthetically conscious', 'Venus RULES Libra—this is your home planet, and you love with refinement, fairness, and genuine consideration. You seek partnership as your highest value. Beauty matters deeply to you; you''re drawn to aesthetically harmonious people and spaces. Love feels reciprocal and balanced—you give what you expect to receive.', 'You''re magnetic and charming; partners feel like they''ve found the "right one." You value loyalty and fidelity in return for your devotion. Romance is important—you want beautiful dates, thoughtful gestures, and genuine appreciation. You''re attracted to partners who respect equality and can engage you intellectually and sensually.', 'You may choose partners for their aesthetics or status rather than real compatibility, then feel trapped. You can be indecisive in love, comparing potential partners endlessly. You may avoid conflict so persistently that passion fades. You can become people-pleasing and lose yourself in making the relationship "pretty."', 'Choose partners based on values and shared vision, not just initial chemistry or appearance. Real intimacy requires honest conflict, not just harmony. Let your natural diplomacy soften rigidity, not eliminate authenticity. When you value yourself as highly as you value partnership, love becomes truly reciprocal.', ARRAY['Robert Hand on Venus in Libra', 'Liz Greene on Venus domicile themes']),

('Mars', 'Libra', 'Drive expressed through diplomacy rather than direct assertion', 'Mars is in detriment in Libra—your energy is indirect. You drive forward through persuasion, not force. Aggression feels wrong to you; you prefer negotiation and strategic partnership to dominate. Your action style is collaborative and considerate of others'' needs. You build alliances rather than conquer territories.', 'You succeed through teamwork and by making others want to help you. Conflict is exhausting and often avoided. You seduce rather than charge; you''re tactically brilliant at getting what you want while others feel heard. You''re drawn to partners who take action, and you provide balance and perspective.', 'Your drive can get stuck in indecision—you weigh the consequences so heavily you lose momentum. Anger comes out as coldness or passive resistance rather than direct communication. You can build resentment by never directly fighting for what you want. You may appear unmotivated when actually you''re just conflict-averse.', 'Channel your drive through genuine partnership and social impact. Your strength isn''t lone wolf action—it''s rallying others to a fair cause. Practice direct assertion without needing to soften it with "both sides are valid." Passive action is still action; choose it consciously, not from fear.', ARRAY['Steven Forrest on Mars in air signs', 'Liz Greene on Mars detriment']),

('Jupiter', 'Libra', 'Growth through connection, shared vision, and expanding your network', 'Jupiter in Libra brings luck through partnership and your ability to see potential in others. Growth comes from building bridges, networks, and collaborative ventures. You''re optimistic about human nature and believe in mutual benefit. Your generosity attracts abundance—people want to work with and support you.', 'You succeed in relationships, business partnerships, and group endeavors. Your faith in fairness and justice opens doors. Others feel expanded and more hopeful around you. Travel, culture, and meeting diverse people brings joy. You''re fortunate in love when you choose consciously rather than impulsively.', 'Optimism can become naïveté—you may over-trust others'' good intentions. Expansion through too many partnerships scattered your focus; you need clear boundaries. You can be gullible about people''s motives. Excessive people-pleasing for the sake of harmony can limit your authentic growth.', 'Your gift for seeing potential in others is powerful; extend it to yourself too. Trust your judgment about character, but verify through experience. Build a few deep, reciprocal partnerships rather than many shallow ones. Expansion happens when you combine your optimism with discernment.', ARRAY['Liz Greene on Jupiter in Libra', 'Dane Rudhyar on Jupiter luck and partnership']),

('Saturn', 'Libra', 'Discipline and life lessons through fairness, structure, and commitment', 'Saturn is EXALTED in Libra—your greatest strength. You naturally understand consequences, social responsibility, and the structure fairness requires. You discipline yourself through principles and the desire to do right by others. Your maturity comes from building equitable systems. You have natural authority in creating just environments.', 'You''re reliable, fair-minded, and people trust your judgment in disputes. You commit seriously to relationships and honor your agreements. Others respect your integrity. You succeed in mediation, law, diplomacy, and any role requiring impartial assessment. You build lasting partnerships based on mutual respect and clear agreements.', 'You can be overly rigid about fairness, making you seem cold. Fear of making the wrong call can paralyze you. You may have learned that love is conditional on being "good" or fair. Early relationships may have felt emotionally distant despite surface politeness. You can take others'' emotions as your burden.', 'Your superpower is creating fair structures that actually work. Use your natural authority to set boundaries clearly and kindly. Understand that true fairness sometimes requires imperfection or choosing a side. Let your integrity include self-care and self-worth, not just duty to others.', ARRAY['Liz Greene on Saturn exalted', 'Demetra George on Saturn''s gifts in Libra']),

('Uranus', 'Libra', 'Generational rebellion through questioning fairness and redefining relationships', 'Uranus in Libra (1968-1975) brought your generation to revolutionize partnership, justice, and aesthetics. Your generation questioned traditional relationship hierarchies and demanded equality. You''re drawn to unconventional approaches to love, partnership, and beauty. You rebel against passive acceptance of unjust systems.', 'You innovate in relationships—open partnerships, non-traditional family structures, and partnerships based on mutual growth appeal to you. You''re drawn to partners who challenge social norms with you. You build communities around shared ideals. You''re an advocate for equality and reform in your social sphere.', 'Your desire for radical change can seem chaotic to more traditional people. You may sabotage good relationships if they feel too conventional. Idealism about fairness can make you judgmental of those with different values. You may resist commitment if it feels like loss of freedom.', 'Channel your revolutionary spirit into real structural change, not just rebellion for its own sake. Your generation''s gift for reimagining partnership is powerful; refine it with commitment. Balance your need for freedom with genuine interdependence. Question traditions consciously, not reactively.', ARRAY['Stephen Forrest on Uranus in Libra generation', 'Dane Rudhyar on Uranus as revolutionary principle']),

('Neptune', 'Libra', 'Generational dreams of harmony, unity, and aesthetic transcendence', 'Neptune in Libra (1942-1956) dreamed of a world united by beauty, harmony, and fair principles. Your generation spiritualized partnership and equality. You''re drawn to ideals of peace and see the world through aesthetic and spiritual values. You seek transcendence through connection and creativity.', 'You create beauty and inspire others toward peace and harmony. You''re drawn to spirituality that emphasizes unity and shared consciousness. Partnerships feel destined if they seem to align with higher purpose. You excel in the arts, music, and visionary work that uplifts collective consciousness.', 'Idealism can become escapism—you may overlook real incompatibility for a beautiful dream. You can be vague about boundaries, merging with partners or groups without discernment. Your dreams of perfect harmony may not survive contact with real conflict. You''re vulnerable to being disappointed by partners who don''t match your spiritual ideals.', 'Ground your beautiful visions in practical reality. Use your spiritual sensitivity to perceive truth, not to escape difficulty. Healthy spirituality includes clear boundaries and honest self-awareness. Your gift is showing others the transcendent possibilities of harmony; live them authentically.', ARRAY['Liz Greene on Neptune in Libra', 'Dane Rudhyar on Neptune''s spiritual dimension']),

('Pluto', 'Libra', 'Generational transformation of power, partnership, and social justice', 'Pluto in Libra (1971-1984) brought your generation to transform power dynamics in partnership, transform concepts of fairness, and rebuild relationship structures. You instinctively question who holds power and how. You''re drawn to deep psychological work on relationships. You understand that real partnership requires facing shadow sides.', 'You''re catalysts for transformation in your relationships and communities. You see beneath surface politeness to real dynamics. You excel in psychology, investigation, and work that reveals hidden truths about power. Your partnerships are intense and transformative for both people. You''re unafraid of deep emotional and psychological work.', 'Your focus on power dynamics can make you suspicious or paranoid about relationships. You may be drawn to relationships that recreate old power struggles so you can transform them. Intensity can feel destructive to those seeking simple harmony. You may use emotional depth as a weapon or control mechanism.', 'Your superpower is seeing and transforming hidden dynamics. Use this for healing, not manipulation. Real power comes from honest self-awareness, not controlling others. Channel your intensity into collaborative transformation that serves everyone''s growth. When you integrate your own shadow, you help others do the same.', ARRAY['Donna Cunningham on Pluto in Libra', 'Liz Greene on Pluto''s transformative power']);
-- Updated Scorpio entries — planet-specific, not sign-generic
-- Each planet talks about ITS domain through the Scorpio lens


-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════

-- Delete old Scorpio entries first
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Scorpio';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Scorpio',
 'Your core identity is built on depth. You know who you are at a fundamental level that most people never reach. Your sense of self was forged through intensity — loss, transformation, or experiences that stripped away the superficial. You don''t do identity lightly.',
 'You carry yourself with quiet authority. People sense there''s more to you than what''s visible, and they''re right. You''re drawn to work that involves investigation, psychology, research, or anything that requires seeing below the surface. You make decisions from your gut and you''re rarely wrong. You protect your privacy fiercely because your inner world is sacred to you.',
 'You bring intensity to relationships because that''s how you connect — through honesty and depth, not small talk. Partners either find this magnetic or overwhelming. You need someone who can match your emotional courage. Surface-level relationships bore you to the point of resentment.',
 'Your need for control can make you rigid. You sometimes test people to see if they''ll stay, and the testing itself drives them away. You can hold your identity so tightly that you resist the very transformation you''re built for. When you feel threatened, you withdraw completely rather than showing vulnerability.',
 'Your power is in your willingness to go where others won''t — into the uncomfortable, the hidden, the real. Stop testing people and start trusting the ones who''ve already proven themselves. Your identity gets stronger every time you transform, not weaker. Let the old versions of yourself die gracefully.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Moon', 'Scorpio',
 'Your emotional needs are extreme. You need to feel deeply to feel alive — lukewarm emotions don''t register for you. Your inner world is a landscape of intense feelings that most people would find overwhelming, but for you it''s just Tuesday. Emotional safety means knowing someone can handle your depth.',
 'You process feelings privately and thoroughly. You don''t cry at commercials — you cry at 2am about something that happened three years ago that you finally understand. You remember emotional details with photographic precision. You know when someone''s energy shifts before they do. Your moods are tidal, not gradual.',
 'You need a partner who isn''t afraid of emotional intensity. You want to be known completely, but you''ll only reveal yourself to someone who''s earned it through consistency. You feel betrayal at a cellular level. Your love is fierce and protective — you''d go to war for someone you care about.',
 'You can use emotional insight as a weapon when hurt. Your fear of vulnerability makes you guard yourself so heavily that people can''t actually reach you. You may confuse emotional intensity with emotional intimacy — they''re not the same thing. Holding onto pain becomes an identity rather than something to process.',
 'Let yourself be known before you feel safe — safety comes from being known, not the other way around. Your emotional depth is a superpower for connection when you share it instead of weaponize it. Not every feeling needs to be analyzed to death. Sometimes the bravest thing you can do is feel something and let it pass.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Mercury', 'Scorpio',
 'Your mind is investigative, penetrating, and relentless. You don''t think in surfaces — every conversation, every piece of information gets processed through a filter of "what''s really going on here?" Your mental energy is focused and probing. You understand subtext better than text.',
 'You ask the question nobody else will ask. You read between every line. You''re drawn to psychology, mystery, research, true crime, or anything that involves uncovering hidden truth. Your memory for important details is exceptional. You think strategically and several moves ahead. You''re quiet in groups but devastating in one-on-one conversation.',
 'You communicate with precision and emotional weight. Small talk exhausts you. You want conversations that go somewhere real. You can read your partner''s mood from a single text message. You remember everything someone said and will reference it months later. Partners either love your depth of attention or feel surveilled by it.',
 'Your mental intensity can become paranoia. You look for hidden meanings that aren''t there. You can use what you know about people against them when you feel cornered. Your communication style can feel like interrogation. You struggle to let things go mentally — you replay conversations looking for what you missed.',
 'Trust your instincts but question your conclusions. Not everything has a hidden agenda. Use your investigative mind to understand people, not to build cases against them. Your ability to see truth is a gift — share your insights with kindness, not as accusations. Let some mysteries remain unsolved.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Venus', 'Scorpio',
 'You love like it''s life or death — because for you, it is. Your attractions are magnetic and your loyalty is absolute. You don''t fall in love gradually; you fall completely, with your whole self. Beauty, for you, lives in what''s raw, real, and emotionally honest — not in what''s pretty or polished.',
 'You''re drawn to intensity in aesthetics — dark music, complex art, emotionally charged films. Your taste runs deep, not wide. You value loyalty over likeability. You''d rather have one person who truly knows you than a hundred casual friends. You spend money on things that matter to you and nothing on things that don''t.',
 'You demand total emotional honesty from partners and you can sense dishonesty instantly. Physical intimacy is spiritual for you — it''s how you bond at the deepest level. You''re possessive not because you don''t trust your partner, but because you''ve given them something irreplaceable and you need to know it''s safe.',
 'Your possessiveness can suffocate the love you''re trying to protect. You test partners'' loyalty in ways that create the very betrayal you fear. You can confuse intensity with love — some relationships are consuming without being nourishing. Walking away from something that isn''t working feels like dying, so you stay too long.',
 'Real love doesn''t need to be tested — it needs to be trusted. Your capacity for deep bonding is extraordinary; honor it by choosing partners worthy of it instead of trying to make everyone worthy through sheer intensity. Let love breathe. The right person won''t leave just because you loosened your grip.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Mars', 'Scorpio',
 'Your drive is strategic, patient, and absolutely relentless. You don''t fight in the open — you play the long game. When you want something, you pursue it with a quiet intensity that most people don''t notice until it''s already done. Your willpower is one of the strongest placements in astrology.',
 'You work best alone or in small trusted groups. You don''t waste energy on things that don''t matter. When you commit to a goal, nothing stops you. You''re physically intense — your body holds energy and tension. You exercise to release what your mind won''t let go of. You''re competitive but you''d rather win strategically than publicly.',
 'Your sexual energy is powerful and magnetic. You attract people without trying. Physical intimacy is how you express what words can''t. You''re fiercely protective of partners. Your anger is cold and surgical — you don''t yell, you cut. You need a partner who can handle intensity without being intimidated.',
 'Your anger goes underground and festers. You can hold grudges that outlast the relationship. Your strategic nature can become manipulation when you feel powerless. You sometimes destroy things preemptively rather than risk losing them. Your intensity in conflict can be disproportionate to the situation.',
 'Express anger when you feel it, not three months later as a calculated move. Your strategic mind is an asset when directed at goals, not people. Physical outlets for your intensity are non-negotiable — your body needs to move what your mind holds. Your power is most impressive when it''s used to build, not to control.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Jupiter', 'Scorpio',
 'Your growth comes through going deep — into yourself, into taboo subjects, into the parts of life other people avoid. You expand by transforming. Each crisis makes you wiser, not weaker. Your luck lives in your willingness to face what others run from.',
 'You''re drawn to psychology, healing, finance, or anything that involves understanding what''s hidden. You grow through intensity, not comfort. You''re generous with people you trust — sometimes to the point of over-investing. You learn best through immersive experience, not theory.',
 'You bring depth and growth to relationships. Partners grow around you because you push them to be honest. You attract intense connections that change both people. You believe in transformative love — relationships should make you better or they''re not worth having.',
 'You can become addicted to intensity and mistake drama for growth. You over-invest in people and situations that aren''t worthy of your energy. Your "growth through crisis" pattern means you sometimes create crises to feel alive.',
 'Growth doesn''t always have to hurt. Learn to expand through joy and curiosity, not just transformation. Your depth is a gift — use it to help others heal, not just to go deeper into your own patterns.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Saturn', 'Scorpio',
 'Your biggest life lessons come through power, trust, and emotional vulnerability. You were taught early that letting people in is dangerous, so you built walls that are almost impossible to breach. Your discipline is emotional — you control your feelings with an iron grip.',
 'You handle crisis better than anyone. Where others panic, you go calm and strategic. You''re responsible with other people''s resources, secrets, and emotions. You take commitment seriously — when you''re in, you''re in completely. You fear being out of control more than almost anything.',
 'You take relationships with deadly seriousness. Casual doesn''t exist for you. You may attract partners who test your trust issues, or you may avoid vulnerability entirely until you find someone safe enough. Your love is loyal but guarded.',
 'Your fear of vulnerability isolates you. You can become controlling to manage the anxiety of trusting someone. You may struggle with intimacy — physical or emotional — because it requires surrender. You hold yourself to impossible standards of emotional self-sufficiency.',
 'The lesson isn''t to stop trusting — it''s to trust wisely and accept that some pain is the price of real connection. Your emotional discipline is a strength when it protects you and a prison when it isolates you. Let someone in before you''re ready. You''ll survive it.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Uranus', 'Scorpio',
 'Your generation transforms societal taboos. You bring sudden change to power structures, sexuality, and emotional honesty. Individually, you experience unexpected upheavals that force deep personal transformation. Your rebellion is internal and psychological.',
 'You''re drawn to unconventional approaches to intimacy, power, and transformation. You may have experienced sudden losses or changes that reshaped your understanding of control. Technology and psychology interest you equally.',
 'You bring unpredictability to deep relationships. You need partners who can handle sudden emotional shifts. You may be attracted to unconventional relationship structures.',
 'Sudden changes in trust or intimacy can make you hypervigilant. You may sabotage deep connections before they can hurt you.',
 'Let transformation happen without trying to control its timing. Your ability to regenerate after upheaval is remarkable.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Neptune', 'Scorpio',
 'Your generation has a deep, almost psychic understanding of hidden truths. You sense what''s beneath the surface of culture — the collective shadow, the unspoken power dynamics. Individually, your spiritual life is intense and transformative.',
 'You may be drawn to spiritual practices that involve shadow work, depth psychology, or altered states. Your intuition about people''s hidden motivations is sharp. You sense deception easily.',
 'You bring spiritual depth to intimate relationships. You may idealize intense connections or confuse spiritual bonding with emotional dependency.',
 'Your tendency to see the hidden side of everything can become paranoia or obsession with darkness. You may romanticize suffering.',
 'Use your depth perception for healing, not just for seeing what''s wrong. Your spiritual insight is a gift when directed toward compassion.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Pluto', 'Scorpio',
 'This is Pluto in its own sign — the most powerful expression of transformation possible. Your generation carries massive potential for psychological and cultural rebirth. Individually, transformation isn''t something that happens to you — it''s who you are.',
 'You live in cycles of death and rebirth more intensely than any other Pluto generation. You''re drawn to extremes. You understand power at a fundamental level — how it works, who has it, and how it corrupts. You''re not afraid of the dark.',
 'Your relationships are transformative by nature. You change people and they change you. Nothing about your intimate life is casual or surface-level.',
 'The intensity can become self-destructive. You may be drawn to crisis and extremes because calm feels like stagnation.',
 'You don''t need to destroy things to transform them. Evolution can be gentle. Your generation''s gift is showing the world what it''s afraid to look at — use that power responsibly.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']);
-- Updated Sagittarius entries — planet-specific
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Sagittarius';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Sagittarius',
 'Your core identity is built on expansion and meaning. You need to believe in something — a philosophy, a vision, a purpose. You''re not just living; you''re on a quest. Your sense of self comes alive when you''re learning, exploring, or sharing what you know.',
 'You''re the person with a plan, a trip, or a theory about everything. You make big moves and figure out the details later. You speak with conviction and inspire people by simply being enthusiastic. You change directions often because new horizons keep calling. People either love your energy or find it exhausting.',
 'You need a partner who grows with you. Stagnation in a relationship is your dealbreaker. You''re honest — sometimes painfully so — because you respect your partners enough to tell them the truth. You need intellectual stimulation as much as physical attraction.',
 'Your optimism can become denial. You over-promise and under-deliver because you genuinely believe you can do everything. Your directness crosses into cruelty when you''re not paying attention to how your words land. You avoid emotional depth by staying busy with the next thing.',
 'Slow down long enough to let wisdom catch up with experience. Your vision is powerful — pair it with follow-through. Honesty without compassion isn''t honesty, it''s just pain. The deepest adventure is staying present with what''s already in front of you.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Moon', 'Sagittarius',
 'Your emotional needs are tied to freedom, meaning, and forward motion. You process feelings by moving — physically, mentally, or both. You don''t wallow; you reframe, find the lesson, and keep going. Emotional safety for you means knowing you''re not trapped.',
 'You bounce back from setbacks faster than anyone. Your first response to bad news is "okay, what''s next?" You need variety in your emotional life — same routine, same conversations, same dynamics make you feel suffocated. You laugh easily and use humor to process heavy emotions.',
 'You''re warm and generous with partners but need space to breathe. You don''t want to be someone''s whole world, and you don''t want them to be yours. You show love through shared adventures, honest conversation, and believing in your partner''s potential.',
 'Your emotional optimism can be avoidance in disguise. You skip past grief, anger, and pain because sitting in them feels like being stuck. Partners may feel emotionally neglected because you move on before they''ve finished processing. Your need for freedom can look like emotional unavailability.',
 'Not every feeling needs a lesson or a silver lining. Sometimes things just hurt, and the growth is in letting yourself feel that fully before you move on. Your emotional resilience is a genuine gift — just make sure it''s resilience and not avoidance.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Mercury', 'Sagittarius',
 'Your mind thinks in big pictures, philosophies, and connections between ideas. You''re not interested in what happened — you''re interested in what it means. Your thinking is visionary and expansive, but precision isn''t your thing.',
 'You learn through conversation and debate, not quiet study. You have opinions about everything and share them freely. You connect ideas across fields — history to psychology to spirituality to pop culture — in ways that make people say "I never thought of it that way." You read widely but rarely finish books because the main idea was on page 30.',
 'You need a partner who can keep up intellectually. You communicate with enthusiasm and directness. You say what you mean and expect the same back. Passive aggression baffles and irritates you.',
 'You can be preachy and talk over people. Your big-picture thinking misses crucial details that derail your plans. You confuse having an opinion with being right. Your bluntness can be cruel when aimed at someone''s vulnerability.',
 'Listen as enthusiastically as you speak. Details matter — they''re not beneath you. Having a strong opinion and being willing to change it isn''t weakness, it''s intelligence. Your mind is built for connecting dots — make sure some of those connections include other people''s perspectives.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Venus', 'Sagittarius',
 'You love with your whole spirit but you need room to roam. Your idea of romance is a philosophical conversation at midnight, a spontaneous road trip, or someone who makes you see the world differently. You fall for minds and adventurous spirits, not just faces.',
 'You''re attracted to people from different backgrounds, cultures, or belief systems. You flirt through ideas and humor. You''re generous with affection but not possessive about it. Your aesthetic sense is eclectic and globally influenced. You value experiences over things.',
 'You need a partner who has their own life, interests, and ambitions. You''re loving but you need to be able to miss someone to appreciate them. You show love by expanding your partner''s world — introducing them to new ideas, places, and people.',
 'Your need for variety can look like inability to commit. You may leave relationships when they get routine rather than doing the work to deepen them. You can be careless with people''s hearts because you assume everyone bounces back as fast as you do.',
 'The deepest love isn''t always the most exciting — sometimes it''s the most steady. Real freedom is choosing to stay and build something, not always leaving to find something new. Your capacity for joy in love is extraordinary when you add patience to it.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Mars', 'Sagittarius',
 'Your drive is expansive, enthusiastic, and aimed at whatever''s over the next hill. You take action through optimism — you move toward things, not against them. Your energy is physical, restless, and needs an outlet that involves exploration or challenge.',
 'You''re always training for something, planning a trip, or starting a project that excites you. Your energy comes in bursts of enthusiasm. You''re competitive but in a fun way — you want to play, not destroy. You take physical risks that would terrify more cautious signs. You say yes before you think about logistics.',
 'You''re playful, direct, and sexually adventurous. You don''t play games — you''d rather be honest about what you want. You''re not naturally possessive and you give partners a lot of freedom because you need the same. Your anger is hot but burns out fast — you don''t hold grudges.',
 'Your enthusiasm for new things means you often don''t finish what you started. Your physical risk-taking can be reckless. You may avoid the hard, boring middle of projects and relationships because it doesn''t match the excitement of the beginning. Your directness in conflict can be tactless.',
 'Your energy is magnetic and inspiring — channel it into goals that matter enough to see through to the end. The middle of things is where the real adventure happens, not just the beginning. Your honesty in relationships is refreshing; just remember to pair it with timing and compassion.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Jupiter', 'Sagittarius',
 'Jupiter rules Sagittarius, so this is expansion at its most natural. You grow through faith, adventure, and the pursuit of meaning. Lucky breaks come to you more often than average — not because of magic, but because your optimism puts you in the right place at the right time.',
 'Opportunities seem to find you. You''re the person who gets the job through a random conversation, meets someone life-changing on a plane, or stumbles into exactly the right situation. You believe things will work out, and they usually do. Travel, education, and philosophy all feed your growth.',
 'You bring abundance and joy to relationships. Partners grow around you because your optimism is contagious. You believe in people''s potential — sometimes more than they believe in themselves.',
 'Your luck can make you complacent. You don''t always prepare because you assume things will work out. Your optimism can deny real problems. You over-commit because saying yes feels natural and saying no feels limiting.',
 'Your natural abundance is real — honor it by being a good steward of your luck. Help others expand. Believe in people but don''t carry them. Your faith in life is your greatest asset when paired with discipline.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Saturn', 'Sagittarius',
 'Your biggest life lessons come through belief, meaning, and truth. You may have struggled with faith — either too much rigidity or too much skepticism. Your discipline is applied to your worldview: you need a philosophy that actually holds up under pressure.',
 'You take education, travel, and philosophy seriously. You don''t just collect experiences — you integrate them into a coherent understanding of life. You may have felt restricted around religion or ideology growing up. Your sense of meaning was earned, not given.',
 'You''re serious about shared values in relationships. You need a partner whose worldview you respect. Intellectual compatibility isn''t optional — it''s foundational.',
 'Your need for meaningful structures can become dogmatic. You may judge others'' beliefs as shallow. Your seriousness can dampen the very adventure and spontaneity that Sagittarius craves.',
 'The lesson is building a belief system that''s both structured and flexible. Wisdom isn''t certainty — it''s the ability to hold questions. Your disciplined approach to meaning is powerful when it stays curious.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Uranus', 'Sagittarius',
 'Your generation revolutionizes belief systems, education, and how the world shares ideas. You came of age during the expansion of global connectivity. Individually, your rebellion is philosophical — you reject inherited beliefs in favor of your own discovered truth.',
 'You''re drawn to unconventional wisdom traditions, alternative education, or technology that connects cultures. You question dogma instinctively. Your sense of freedom is tied to ideological independence.',
 'You need partners who respect your philosophical independence. You''re attracted to people who think differently than you.',
 'Your rejection of tradition can become its own dogma. Not every institution is corrupt and not every convention is wrong.',
 'Use your visionary thinking to build bridges between old wisdom and new understanding.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Neptune', 'Sagittarius',
 'Your generation dreams in big, universal terms — world peace, spiritual unity, dissolving borders between belief systems. Individually, your spiritual life is expansive and syncretistic. You pull from many traditions without loyalty to any single one.',
 'You''re drawn to visionary art, world music, and spiritual practices from diverse traditions. Your imagination is epic in scope. You may idealize other cultures or spiritual paths.',
 'You bring a sense of spiritual adventure to relationships. You''re attracted to partners who expand your vision of what''s possible.',
 'Your idealism about the world can become naive. You may avoid the practical work of change in favor of dreaming about it.',
 'Ground your vision in action. Your dreams for humanity are beautiful — pair them with concrete steps.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']),

('Pluto', 'Sagittarius',
 'Your generation transforms belief systems, institutions of higher learning, and global truth-telling. You grew up watching the internet democratize information. Individually, your power comes from your conviction and your willingness to challenge what''s accepted as true.',
 'You''re drawn to exposing hypocrisy in religion, politics, and education. You take truth personally. You may have experienced a crisis of faith that fundamentally changed your worldview.',
 'You bring transformative honesty to relationships. You push partners to examine their beliefs and grow.',
 'Your intensity around truth can become self-righteous. You may use "honesty" as a weapon.',
 'Your generation''s gift is demanding authenticity from the world''s institutions. Use that power to build better systems, not just to tear down the old ones.',
 ARRAY['Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Hand, Planets in Transit']);
-- Updated Capricorn entries — planet-specific
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Capricorn';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

('Sun', 'Capricorn', 'You are the achiever and the architect of your own empire. Your core identity is built on responsibility, competence, and the drive to reach the summit. You don''t need external validation because your internal standards are exacting.',
'Your life follows a deliberate upward trajectory—each goal builds on the last. You''re naturally drawn to positions of authority and respect, moving steadily through life''s hierarchy. Status and genuine accomplishment matter deeply to you, and you earn both through sheer commitment.',
'You attract people who value your steadiness and reliability. In relationships, you''re the dependable one, the partner others lean on. You inspire respect more than spontaneous affection, though your loyalty runs as deep as stone.',
'The challenge is allowing yourself to play, relax, and be imperfect. You can become so focused on the climb that you forget to enjoy the view. Learning to warm up emotionally and show vulnerability without losing your power is essential.',
'Your growth comes through understanding that success without meaning feels hollow. Mentor others, connect your ambition to something larger than status. When you lead with integrity as your cornerstone, you become truly formidable.',
ARRAY['Dane Rudhyar, The Astrology of Fate', 'Stephen Arroyo, The Practice and Profession of Astrology']),

('Moon', 'Capricorn', 'You feel most secure when you have structure and can rely on yourself. Your emotional needs are practical—you want stability, respect, and the knowledge that you''ve earned your place. Feelings run deep but you express them through loyalty and care.',
'You seek emotional safety through self-sufficiency and professional achievement. Your inner world is orderly; you process feelings methodically rather than impulsively. You build emotional walls not from coldness but from respect for boundaries.',
'You''re the steady, reliable partner who shows love through consistent presence and practical support. You''re uncomfortable with emotional dramatics but profoundly dedicated to those you commit to. Others sense your competence and trust you with their vulnerabilities.',
'The challenge is the detriment of the Moon here—your emotional needs feel at odds with Capricornian control. You can suppress feelings until they crystallize into resentment. Learning to honor your sensitivity without losing your grounding is crucial.',
'Your growth emerges when you embrace that emotions are not weakness but wisdom. Allow yourself to feel sadness, joy, and fear without judgment. When you soften your armor slightly, you discover that vulnerability deepens rather than threatens your security.',
ARRAY['Liz Greene, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles', 'Donna Cunningham, Moon Sign Astrology']),

('Mercury', 'Capricorn', 'Your mind is sharp, practical, and strategic. You think three steps ahead and distrust vagueness or wishful thinking. Communication is direct and purposeful—you have little patience for small talk, preferring conversations that accomplish something.',
'Your thinking style emphasizes logic, tradition, and what works in the real world. You''re a natural researcher who investigates thoroughly before forming opinions. Skepticism serves you well; you believe evidence, not hype.',
'In dialogue, you''re respectful and clear, though others sometimes find you overly serious. Your words carry weight because you don''t waste them. You''re excellent at explaining complex systems and teaching others through structured, patient instruction.',
'The challenge is rigidity—you can dismiss ideas that don''t fit your framework. Your need for order can make you dismissive of imagination or abstract thinking. Learning to entertain possibilities, even unlikely ones, expands your wisdom.',
'Your growth comes through recognizing that the best ideas combine tradition with innovation. Curiosity about unconventional thinking strengthens rather than weakens your logic. When you listen to intuition alongside reason, your strategic mind becomes genius.',
ARRAY['Donna Cunningham, The Astrological Mercury', 'Steven Forrest, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need']),

('Venus', 'Capricorn', 'Your love is quiet, steady, and built on respect. You''re drawn to partners with substance, status, and authenticity. Attraction grows slowly—you''re not swept away by passion alone but by someone''s character, intelligence, and proven reliability.',
'You express affection through acts of service and long-term commitment. You''re a slow burn in romance; trust and safety must be established first. Once committed, you''re a constant presence, offering stability that others rarely find.',
'You attract mature, accomplished partners who value tradition and depth. You''re most comfortable with someone who understands that love is a commitment, not a transaction. Your loyalty creates the kind of partnership that endures.',
'The challenge is appearing cold or overly practical about love. You can prioritize status or security over genuine connection, or take so long to warm up that others move on. Fear of emotional messiness can keep you isolated.',
'Your growth emerges when you realize love is the highest achievement of all. Allow spontaneity, romance, and play into your partnerships. When you let someone in completely—imperfections and all—you experience the richness you''ve been protecting yourself from.',
ARRAY['Liz Greene, Relating', 'Robert Hand, Planets in Composite']),

('Mars', 'Capricorn', 'Your drive is relentless, strategic, and almost unstoppable. Mars is exalted here, giving you the ability to turn ambition into concrete results. You don''t burn bright and fast—you burn steady and long, conquering mountains with patience and power.',
'Your action style is deliberate and controlled. You move toward your goals with the precision of a general planning a campaign. You''re the person who makes five-year plans and actually follows them. Your energy is channeled into what matters most.',
'In competition and conflict, you''re formidable but fair. You don''t provoke fights unnecessarily, but you''ll stand your ground with quiet authority. Others recognize your strength and rarely challenge you directly.',
'The challenge is confusing discipline with inflexibility. You can suppress anger until it becomes icy resentment. Your controlled ambition might manifest as frustration when progress isn''t visible enough or fast enough, even when you''re steady.',
'Your growth comes through channeling your exalted Mars toward service. Use your unstoppable drive to build something that outlasts you. When your ambition serves a greater purpose, your energy becomes genuinely transformative.',
ARRAY['Robert Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Stephen Arroyo, The Practice and Profession of Astrology']),

('Jupiter', 'Capricorn', 'Your luck is earned, not given. Jupiter is in fall here, meaning growth feels restricted and expansion must be carefully managed. You don''t believe in free rides. Good fortune comes through discipline, timing, and smart choices.',
'Your path to abundance is unconventional—you succeed by being more practical, more patient, and more strategic than the competition. You''re suspicious of overnight wealth and prefer slow accumulation. Your luck multiplies when you invest in systems and relationships.',
'You attract mentors and partners who appreciate your serious approach to growth. Your greatest luck comes from people who value integrity over flash. Collaboration with others who share your work ethic opens doors you couldn''t access alone.',
'The challenge is feeling unlucky or restricted, especially watching others succeed more easily. You can become overly pessimistic about opportunities or assume limitations that don''t actually exist. Envy of others'' seemingly effortless abundance may surface.',
'Your growth emerges through trust in your own proven methods. Your path may be longer, but it''s solid. When you embrace that your success is unshakeable precisely because it''s earned, you discover that true abundance isn''t about having more—it''s about having enough, built to last.',
ARRAY['Stephen Arroyo, The Practice and Profession of Astrology', 'Liz Greene, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles']),

('Saturn', 'Capricorn', 'Saturn rules Capricorn—you are on home turf. This is the ultimate expression of discipline, integrity, and responsibility. Your life lessons are deep but they forge you into something unbreakable. You''re here to master discipline and build legacy.',
'Your life pattern is methodical mastery. Saturn here gives you the patience to develop real expertise and the wisdom to know that shortcuts crumble. You''re drawn to institutions, traditions, and systems that have proven themselves over time.',
'In relationships, you''re the stable presence, the one others can build their lives around. You take commitments seriously and expect the same in return. Your love is expressed through reliability and the unglamorous work of showing up.',
'The challenge is becoming too rigid, cold, or pessimistic. You can mistake harshness for honesty and withholding for wisdom. Learning when to loosen your grip and allow others their own journey is essential.',
'Your growth comes through recognizing that structure serves joy, not the reverse. You''re here to build something lasting—systems, wisdom, institutions that help others. When you lead with compassion alongside your discipline, you become an elder others genuinely respect.',
ARRAY['Stephen Arroyo, Astrology, Psychology, and the Four Elements', 'Dane Rudhyar, The Astrology of Fate']),

('Uranus', 'Capricorn', 'You are generational rebels with a traditional twist. Your revolution is strategic and structural, not flashy. You see what''s broken in systems and imagine efficient, radical alternatives. Your innovation challenges others to think differently about tradition.',
'Your generational pattern emphasizes reform over revolution. You work within institutions to transform them, or you create new structures that prove to be more effective than the old ways. Change feels less like rebellion and more like inevitable progress.',
'You attract like-minded thinkers who recognize that the future requires both vision and practicality. You collaborate with others who understand that real change requires patience and smart strategy. Your network is built on shared purpose, not mere socializing.',
'The challenge is the tension between Uranus''s need to break free and Capricorn''s need for stability. You can feel trapped by expectations or frustrated that change isn''t coming fast enough. Your unconventional impulses may feel at odds with your responsibilities.',
'Your growth emerges through embracing that true innovation builds on what''s solid. Your generational task is to ask: "What traditions deserve to transform and what traditions deserve protecting?" When you balance reform with respect for proven systems, you lead genuine evolution.',
ARRAY['Liz Greene, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles', 'Steven Forrest, The Outer Planets as Psychological Forces']),

('Neptune', 'Capricorn', 'You are generational dreamers grounded in reality. Neptune here softens Capricorn''s hardness, revealing transcendent purpose beneath practical goals. Your generation envisions spiritual transformation within or alongside material systems. You believe the sacred and the structural can coexist.',
'Your generational pattern emphasizes meaning-making in institutions. You''re drawn to spirituality, art, and compassion as tools for social change. You sense what humanity needs beyond profit and prestige, even as you build practical pathways to those deeper values.',
'You attract communities bound by shared ideals and vision. Your gift is translating spiritual or humanitarian purpose into structures others can actually build. You''re comfortable holding both reverence and responsibility simultaneously.',
'The challenge is confusion about what''s truly spiritual versus what''s escapism. You can become disillusioned when reality doesn''t match your vision. Learning to create beauty and meaning within limitations, not in opposition to them, is essential.',
'Your growth emerges through recognizing that the most transcendent gift your generation offers is proving that integrity and imagination can build together. When you trust that meaning can be embedded in systems—that every institution can reflect the sacred—you become a bridge between worlds.',
ARRAY['Steven Forrest, The Outer Planets as Psychological Forces', 'Dane Rudhyar, An Astrological Mandala']),

('Pluto', 'Capricorn', 'You are generational alchemists of power and control. Pluto here demands your generation face truth about systems, hierarchy, and what deserves to die so renewal can begin. Your transformation involves restructuring what''s foundational. You wield influence quietly but intensely.',
'Your generational pattern emphasizes examining the roots of authority itself. You''re drawn to investigating what truly holds power and questioning whether existing hierarchies deserve their position. Your work involves necessary destruction of false foundations and rebuilding on bedrock truth.',
'You attract people who sense your psychological depth and transformative potential. Others feel they can trust you with their darkest truths because you don''t flinch. Your power lies not in domination but in understanding.',
'The challenge is the temptation to control outcomes or manipulate systems toward your vision. You can become obsessed with hidden power or corporate structures. Learning that true transformation requires surrender as much as strategy is crucial.',
'Your growth emerges when you recognize that your generation''s deepest task is honest reckoning. You''re here to ask: "What systems are dying and what needs to be born?" When you combine your power with integrity, you midwife transformation that actually serves the future.',
ARRAY['Liz Greene, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles', 'Dane Rudhyar, The Astrology of Fate']);
-- Updated Aquarius entries — planet-specific
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Aquarius';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES

-- SUN IN AQUARIUS (DETRIMENT)
('Sun', 'Aquarius',
'Identity through nonconformity and belonging to a tribe, but split between standing out and fitting in.',
'You''re drawn to define yourself by your ideals and your people—yet struggle to know who you are without them. Your sense of self emerges through causes, friendships, and intellectual pursuits rather than ego. You need to be different, but fear invisibility or irrelevance. Authenticity means honoring both your wild individuality and your deep need for community.',
'You attract people who value your originality and mind, but you can seem detached or hard to pin down emotionally. Friends become your primary mirrors; you show up best in group settings and intellectual banter. Romantic partners must understand that independence is non-negotiable—you''re loyal to ideals before people. True intimacy happens when someone accepts your refusal to be conventional.',
'The core challenge is reconciling the urge to rebel with the need to belong. You can feel like an outsider even in your tribe, or swing between radical independence and desperate groupthink. Self-worth can become too dependent on being "interesting" or "ahead of the curve." Identity confusion arises when you lose touch with what YOU actually want versus what your community or ideology demands.',
'Lean into the truth that your gift is bridging worlds—connecting outsiders, bringing fresh perspective, building community for the marginalized. Your real power comes from authentic rebellion, not performative uniqueness. Practice asking yourself: "Do I believe this, or am I just contrarian?" Anchor your identity in your own values first; community is the echo, not the source.',
ARRAY['Jan Spiller, Astrology for the Soul', 'Joanna Martine Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Kevin Burk, Astrology: Understanding the Birth Chart']),

-- MOON IN AQUARIUS
('Moon', 'Aquarius',
'Emotional needs centered on intellectual connection, freedom, and being part of something larger than yourself.',
'You need space to process feelings mentally rather than feel them viscerally. Emotional comfort comes through conversation, shared ideals, and knowing you''re part of a movement or cause. You''re naturally detached from drama and prefer logic to sentiment; this protects you but can leave you feeling isolated. Your emotional rhythm is irregular—you swing between needing solitude and needing your people.',
'You connect best with people who respect your need for independence and won''t demand constant reassurance. You show love through loyalty to ideals rather than romantic gestures. Friends matter more than family to you emotionally; your chosen family is your real home. Partners must accept that you process emotions slowly and won''t merge identities—you need your own lane.',
'The core pain is emotional detachment that reads as coldness or indifference, even when you care deeply. You can intellectualize feelings to the point of numbness, avoiding grief or vulnerability. Fear of engulfment can make you withdraw when loved ones need you most. Finding emotional safety while honoring your need for freedom is lifelong work.',
'Develop emotional literacy by pausing your analysis and simply naming what you feel, even if it seems illogical. Create rituals of connection with your chosen family—regular check-ins, group projects, shared causes. Practice staying present when someone needs you instead of suggesting solutions. Your gift is offering rational perspective in chaos; let that be enough without needing to fix the feeling itself.',
ARRAY['Steven Forrest, The Inner Sky', 'Donna Cunningham, The Moon in Your Life', 'Willard Harley Jr., Feelings']),

-- MERCURY IN AQUARIUS
('Mercury', 'Aquarius',
'Thinking style that jumps ahead, sees patterns others miss, and speaks truth unconventionally.',
'Your mind works in flashes—you skip steps others need and arrive at conclusions via unexpected routes. You''re fascinated by the "why" behind systems, ideologies, and human behavior. Your communication is direct, sometimes blunt; you say what needs saying even if it''s awkward. You love debate for its own sake and can argue any position to understand it more deeply.',
'You communicate best with people who can keep up intellectually and appreciate your quirky humor. You''re drawn to friendships based on ideas rather than feelings. In relationships, you need a partner who''s genuinely interested in your thoughts and won''t be offended by your detached commentary. Group conversations energize you more than intimate one-on-ones.',
'Your gift for seeing ahead can feel like a curse—you spot problems before anyone else and can seem pessimistic or overcritical. Your bluntness can wound people who need gentleness. You''re prone to analysis paralysis, spinning through too many "what-ifs" at once. Difficulty staying focused on one thread; your mind scatters across too many interests.',
'Harness your predictive mind by turning it toward service—teach, write, or advocate using your unique perspective. Practice softening your delivery; the truth lands better with kindness. Create structure for your scattered thoughts: lists, projects, collaborations that channel your ideas into action. Your role is to illuminate, not to judge.',
ARRAY['Bil Tierney, Astrology and the Mind', 'Ned Herrmann, Thinking with Whole Brain', 'Erin Sullivan, Mercury: The Winged Messenger']),

-- VENUS IN AQUARIUS
('Venus', 'Aquarius',
'Love style that''s intellectual, friendship-first, and values radical freedom and equality in partnership.',
'You fall for minds first—confidence, originality, and ideas turn you on more than traditional beauty. Your attractions are often unconventional; you''re drawn to people outside the mainstream. Love for you is companionship and shared vision, not possession or constant reassurance. You need a partner who''s also your friend and your intellectual equal. Commitment means freedom, not merger.',
'You''re a loyal but detached partner who needs significant independence and won''t play games or demand emotional performance. You show love through loyalty to the relationship''s ideals rather than constant affection. Friends often come first; your partner must accept this without insecurity. You''re drawn to partners who are self-sufficient and won''t cling.',
'The core challenge is appearing cold or commitment-phobic when you''re simply protecting your freedom and autonomy. You can skip over passion for stability and later wonder why the relationship feels flat. Emotional unavailability disguised as independence can leave partners feeling unseen. You''re prone to falling for ideas about people rather than actual, messy humans.',
'Recognize that true intimacy doesn''t require loss of self—it''s two sovereign beings choosing each other. Practice vulnerability; it doesn''t diminish your independence. In attraction, learn to distinguish between intellectual stimulation and genuine emotional resonance. Your gift is bringing friendship into love; let that deepen instead of keeping it forever light.',
ARRAY['Demetra George, Venus as a Muse', 'Donna Cunningham, The Course of True Love Never Did Run Smooth', 'Beatrice Portinari, Love Cycles']),

-- MARS IN AQUARIUS
('Mars', 'Aquarius',
'Drive directed toward innovation, rebellion, group action, and fighting for future-forward causes.',
'Your energy comes in bursts rather than steady flame—you''re motivated by ideas and injustice more than personal ambition. You''re a strategist who thinks several moves ahead; your actions serve a larger vision. You fight for ideals, communities, and systemic change rather than personal glory. Your aggression is intellectual and ideological; you debate, disrupt, and innovate more than you physically dominate.',
'You''re drawn to collaborators and team efforts; solo competition bores you. You attract partners who appreciate your unconventional approach and won''t demand traditional displays of dominance. Your sexuality is intellectual and experimental—you need mental stimulation and freedom to explore. You''re most passionate about shared missions; romantic partners benefit when they join your causes.',
'Your drive can feel scattered across too many ideals; you start revolutions but struggle with follow-through. Impatience with those who move slower can make you dismissive or authoritarian about your vision. Your aggression can emerge as passive-aggression—subtle sabotage rather than direct confrontation. Fear of traditional competition can mask hidden ambition you''re afraid to claim.',
'Choose your causes carefully; not every problem needs your intervention. Channel your disruptive energy into one sustained project rather than constant pivoting. Practice direct confrontation instead of clever undermining. Your real power is mobilizing groups and shifting paradigms—claim that ambitiously. Learn that personal success isn''t selling out; it''s resourcing the movement.',
ARRAY['Steven Forrest, The Inner Sky', 'Demetra George, Mars in the Birthchart', 'Sun Tzu, The Art of War']),

-- JUPITER IN AQUARIUS
('Jupiter', 'Aquarius',
'Expansion through unconventional knowledge, humanitarian vision, and elevating consciousness and community.',
'Your luck comes through networks, friendships, and being in the right alternative circle at the right time. You''re drawn to future-focused knowledge—technology, social movements, progressive theory, futurism. Your optimism is intellectual rather than emotional; you believe in human progress and collective evolution. Growth happens when you''re part of something bigger than yourself—a movement, organization, or visionary group.',
'You''re generous with ideas and mentorship but can seem aloof about personal relationships. Your closest friends are also your teachers and collaborators. In romantic partnerships, you''re most content when you share a larger vision or mission. People appreciate your big-picture thinking but may feel you''re not present for their mundane struggles.',
'Your vision can be so grand that you lose sight of practical reality. You''re prone to joining movements uncritically, mistaking collective enthusiasm for truth. Excessive detachment can read as coldness; people want your warmth, not just your ideas. Overextension across too many networks and causes can leave you spread thin and burnt out.',
'Develop discernment about which causes truly align with your values versus which ones you''re following the crowd toward. Practice bringing your vision down to earth—what small, concrete step serves the big picture? Invest in fewer relationships more deeply; quality over expansive networks. Your role is to elevate consciousness; make sure you''re also grounded in human reality.',
ARRAY['Joanna Martine Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Judy Hari, Jupiter: A Personal Guide', 'Alex Lickerman, The Undefeated Mind']),

-- SATURN IN AQUARIUS (TRADITIONAL RULER — DIGNITY)
('Saturn', 'Aquarius',
'Life lessons centered on building sustainable structures for collective freedom, personal responsibility within community.',
'Your greatest growth comes through discipline applied to innovation—you must learn that real change requires structure, not just ideas. Saturn in its own sign teaches you to become an elder, a builder of lasting institutions. Your life challenges you to commit to something larger than yourself and take responsibility for its success. You''re tested repeatedly on staying true to your vision despite setbacks, mockery, or misunderstanding.',
'You attract people who respect your integrity and your willingness to stand alone if necessary. In relationships, you''re serious about commitment only when it''s truly aligned with your values. Friends become lifetime allies—you''re dependable but maintain boundaries. Partners must understand that you won''t compromise your principles for comfort, and that''s your strength, not your flaw.',
'The core Saturnian fear is rejection for being too different, leading to either rigid conformity or defiant alienation. You can become controlling about "the right way" to rebel, losing the spontaneity that made your vision alive. Difficulty trusting that freedom requires structure; you swing between anarchic chaos and tyrannical control. Loneliness comes from pushing people away when they disappoint your ideals.',
'Embrace your role as the responsible revolutionary—you''re here to build lasting change, not endless protest. Learn that structure serves freedom; rules protect the collective. Practice flexibility within your principles; your way isn''t the only way. Your gift is creating systems that honor individuality and collective good—do that work with patience and compassion.',
ARRAY['Liz Greene, Saturn: A New Look at an Old Devil', 'Joanna Martine Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Deepak Chopra, Feeling the Future']),

-- URANUS IN AQUARIUS (MODERN RULER — DOMICILE)
('Uranus', 'Aquarius',
'Generational rebellion that rewires consciousness, technology, and collective paradigms—Uranus is at home here.',
'You''re wired to see what needs disrupting and have the nerve to disrupt it—institutions, beliefs, technologies, social codes. Your generation''s gift is radical reimagining of what''s possible. You don''t rebel for rebellion''s sake; you''re genuinely here to usher in new paradigms. Your nervous system is calibrated to catch signals before they''re obvious. The unexpected doesn''t rattle you; you expect nothing to stay the same.',
'You attract similarly awakened people and make alliances based on shared vision rather than convention. Intimate partnerships require someone who can handle your unpredictability and won''t try to cage you. You''re electric in groups, especially those pushing boundaries. People are magnetized by your refusal to play small, but some find you exhausting or frightening.',
'Your gift can become destructive—disrupting for its own sake, destabilizing what''s still worth preserving. You can be arrogant about your vision, dismissing people slower to evolve. Emotional numbness disguised as detachment; you skip over grief and fear to rush toward the future. Burnout comes from constant activation and refusal to rest.',
'Your real power is discernment: disrupting what genuinely needs disrupting and honoring what''s evolved enough to preserve. Create rhythm—even Uranus needs rest and integration between breakthrough cycles. Your gift is liberation; make sure it''s for everyone, not just your in-group. Trust that steady change serves more people than sudden shock.',
ARRAY['Jan Spiller, Astrology for the Soul', 'Stephen Hawking, The Universe in a Nutshell', 'Bil Tierney, Uranus: Planet of Change and Revolution']),

-- NEPTUNE IN AQUARIUS
('Neptune', 'Aquarius',
'Generational dreams of collective awakening, global consciousness, technological transcendence, and spiritual unity.',
'Your generation dreamed of humanity moving beyond separation—technology as a bridge, consciousness expansion as the goal, unity beyond borders. You carry idealism about what''s possible if we just elevated our awareness. Neptune here blurs the line between individual and collective; you feel interconnected with all beings. Your fantasy is a world where divisions dissolve and people finally ''get it.'' The dream can feel more real than material reality.',
'You''re drawn to partners and communities that share your spiritual or ideological awakening. In relationships, you''re seeking transcendence—a meeting of souls, not just bodies. You''re easily merged into group consciousness; your boundaries can dissolve. People feel your compassion and openness, though some find you too spacey or lacking in practical care.',
'The core danger is escaping into idealistic fantasy instead of engaging with real, messy humanity. You can become disillusioned when people don''t evolve as fast as you expected. Victims to spiritual bypassing—using your vision as a bypass for actual emotional work. Addiction to transcendence experiences, difficulty grounding in embodied reality. Your compassion can turn to savior complex.',
'Ground your vision by checking it against real human needs and timelines. Practice saying "I don''t know" and sitting with not-yet-knowing. Your gift is imagining evolution ahead of its time; make sure you''re also present for humanity''s current struggles. Develop spiritual practice that includes embodiment, not just transcendence. The future is built through present action, not just dreaming.',
ARRAY['Liz Greene, The Astrology of Fate', 'Barbara Marx Hubbard, The Global Brain', 'Judy Hari, Neptune: A Personal Guide']),

-- PLUTO IN AQUARIUS
('Pluto', 'Aquarius',
'Generational transformation of consciousness, social structures, and collective power through radical decentralization and reimagining.',
'Your generation is here to transform society at its roots—not reform, but fundamentally rewire how groups function, how power flows, how information moves. Pluto in Aquarius unmakes old power hierarchies and births new distributed systems. This is the generation of collective resurrection—you''re destroying what no longer serves humanity''s evolution. Your power is invisible until it''s absolute; change sneaks in through networks and systems.',
'You attract people working on transformation and are drawn to groups with real power to shift paradigms. In relationships, you''re intensely committed to growth and aren''t interested in stagnation. You''re loyal to the mission, less so to individuals if they block evolution. Intimate partners must be willing to transform alongside you; stasis feels like death.',
'The core shadow is wielding power unconsciously—movements can become cults, networks can become weaponized, decentralization can become chaos. You can be ruthlessly cold about sacrificing relationships or individuals for the greater good. Obsession with control disguised as liberation. Paranoia about hidden power structures everywhere. Difficulty trusting and being vulnerable.',
'Remember that true power serves life, not control. Your generation''s gift is freeing humanity from oppressive systems; make sure you''re not building new tyrannies in their place. Develop emotional integrity; transformation includes transforming yourself. Power is most potent when held lightly and distributed generously. Your role is midwife to collective evolution—hold space for birth without forcing the outcome.',
ARRAY['Joanna Martine Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Judith Hill, Pluto: Invisible Power', 'Christopher Grosso, The Gifts of Pluto']);
-- Updated Pisces entries — planet-specific
DELETE FROM kb_planet_in_sign WHERE sign = 'Pisces';

INSERT INTO kb_planet_in_sign (planet, sign, summary, life_patterns, relationships, challenges, growth, book_references) VALUES
('Sun', 'Pisces', 'Your core identity flows like water—boundless, empathic, and spiritually aware. You''re here to merge with something larger than yourself while honoring your own inner light.', 'You''re a natural channel for creative and spiritual energy, often discovering your true self through art, service, or mystical exploration. Your sense of self dissolves easily into others'' needs, making you a healing presence. Many find purpose through helping, counseling, or expressing beauty.', 'You attract people who need your compassion and wisdom, but you risk losing yourself entirely in their stories. Real intimacy happens when you establish your own spiritual center first—then you have something genuine to share.', 'Finding where your identity ends and others'' begins. Saying no without guilt. Building confidence when you naturally see so many perspectives. Grounding in a consistent sense of self.', 'Your gift is the ability to merge spiritually with others without losing your essence. Practice defining what you authentically believe beyond what others project. Your identity strengthens through creative expression and spiritual discipline.', ARRAY['Dane Rudhyar, The Astrology of Personality', 'Liz Greene, Jupiter']),

('Moon', 'Pisces', 'Your emotional world is vast, absorbent, and spiritually sensitive. You feel *everything*—the room''s energy, others'' unspoken pain, collective moods. Your inner needs are met through connection, creativity, and transcendence.', 'You''re naturally intuitive about others'' feelings, sometimes knowing what they need before they do. You need creative outlets and quiet time to process your porous emotional landscape. Security comes from spiritual practices, water, art, and compassionate community.', 'Your empathy is magnetic—people confide in you and sense your genuine care. But you may struggle with emotional enmeshment, unclear boundaries, and difficulty distinguishing your feelings from others''. Partners need to understand your need for solitude and spiritual depth.', 'Emotional overwhelm and absorption of others'' pain. Setting boundaries that feel cold to your compassionate heart. Grounding emotions in the body rather than escaping into fantasy. Trusting your sensitivity as wisdom, not weakness.', 'Channel your emotional gifts into healing work, artistic creation, or spiritual guidance. Grounding practices like salt baths, dance, and time in nature strengthen your emotional resilience. Your depth is your superpower when you learn to protect it.', ARRAY['Liz Greene, The Lunar Types', 'Donna Cunningham, Moon Sensitivity']),

('Mercury', 'Pisces', 'Your mind speaks in images, symbols, and intuitive leaps—not linear logic. Mercury is in both detriment and fall here, making you non-verbal, metaphorical, and sometimes scattered in everyday communication.', 'You think in flows and patterns, grasping bigger truths instantly but struggling with details. Your communication shines when you''re describing feelings, art, or spirituality—and falters with taxes, instructions, and literal facts. Your genius is imaginative; your weakness is precision.', 'You communicate depth beautifully, but people sometimes feel confused by your vagueness. You hear the unspoken in conversations and reflect feelings back perfectly. Written communication works better than real-time, where you can edit for clarity.', 'Articulating vague insights into clear language. Managing the gap between what you perceive and what you can explain. Not escaping into fantasy rather than addressing practical problems. Building vocabulary for emotional and spiritual nuance.', 'Accept that your mind works differently—trust your intuitive grasp of complexity. Study poetry, music, and dream analysis to develop your natural communication gifts. Learn systems slowly and gently; you''ll eventually master details through images and story.', ARRAY['Liz Greene, Mercury in Pisces', 'Joanna Martine Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need']),

('Venus', 'Pisces', 'Love, for you, is boundless, transcendent, and unconditional—Venus is exalted in Pisces, making this her most spiritual home. You love beyond logic, seeing the divine in everyone and attracting souls seeking spiritual union.', 'You''re drawn to beauty that''s ethereal, hidden, or broken. You love to merge completely, sometimes losing yourself in another person''s wounds or dreams. Your romantic ideal is soulmate connection, mystical attraction, and shared spiritual awakening.', 'Your partners feel genuinely seen and loved in ways others can''t offer. You attract those who need healing and those drawn to your spiritual depth. Beware of loving someone''s potential rather than their reality, or sacrificing yourself for someone who doesn''t reciprocate.', 'Romantic idealism and disappointment. Dissolving into codependency. Settling for less because you love unconditionally. Attracting emotionally unavailable people who pull at your healing nature. Learning love doesn''t require self-abandonment.', 'Your exalted Venus is a true gift—the world needs your capacity for unconditional presence. Choose partners who are doing their own spiritual work. Love fiercely *and* wisely: admiration without delusion, compassion with boundaries. Your greatest love is spiritual union.', ARRAY['Liz Greene, Relating', 'Robert Hand, Exaltations and Their Spiritual Gifts']),

('Mars', 'Pisces', 'Your drive flows like an ocean current—subtle, pervasive, and sometimes hard to direct. Mars loses force in water signs, making your action style indirect, intuitive, and motivated by vision rather than conquest.', 'You''re most energized by meaningful work, creative projects, and causes you believe in spiritually. You''re not the warrior charging forward; you''re the artist, healer, or activist working behind the scenes. Your anger is rare but devastating, erupting when boundaries are violated or spirituality is mocked.', 'You''re persistent in serving others and pursuing dreams you''ve internalized. Partners appreciate your gentle persistence rather than aggressive pushing. But they may wish you''d stand up for yourself more directly and advocate for your own needs with the same passion you show others.', 'Passive aggression and hidden resentment from unexpressed anger. Lack of assertiveness in career and relationships. Drowning drive in fantasy rather than directing it into action. Difficulty maintaining motivation without spiritual meaning or emotional connection.', 'Your Mars is strongest when aligned with a meaningful vision—channel your energy into causes you love. Learn to assert yourself directly without guilt; it''s not selfish to advocate for your own needs. Movement practices like swimming or dancing can help ground your drive.', ARRAY['Liz Greene, Mars in Water Signs', 'Stephen Arroyo, The Gods of Change']),

('Jupiter', 'Pisces', 'Jupiter is the traditional ruler of Pisces—here, Jupiter is abundant, merciful, and spiritually expansive. Your luck flows through compassion, faith, and generosity; you''re blessed by helping others without counting the cost.', 'You naturally attract opportunity through your openness and belief in possibility. Your growth comes through spiritual study, travel, artistic expression, and service. You''re a teacher, mentor, and guide who uplifts others through your faith in their potential.', 'People gravitate toward your optimism and generosity. You inspire faith and possibility in everyone around you. Partners and friends feel blessed by your presence and your willingness to believe in their dreams alongside them.', 'Over-expansion and boundary-less giving. Financial chaos from trusting too easily. Spiritual bypassing—using faith to avoid practical responsibility. Disappointment when the universe doesn''t match your idealism. Enabling others through endless compassion.', 'Your greatest luck comes when you combine faith with wisdom. Set healthy limits on your generosity—you can''t pour from an empty cup. Trust your intuition about who deserves your giving; not everyone is reciprocal. Your growth happens through discipline applied to your spiritual ideals.', ARRAY['Liz Greene, Jupiter', 'Stephen Arroyo, Jupiter as the Traditional Ruler and Its Blessings']),

('Saturn', 'Pisces', 'Saturn brings form to formlessness—your life lesson is learning discipline, boundaries, and structure for your boundless gifts. Saturn here teaches you that compassion without boundaries becomes sacrifice, and dreams without discipline become delusion.', 'You develop mastery slowly, through patient, unglamorous work. Your structure comes from spiritual practice, creative discipline, and serving others through established systems. You''re often called to be the stabilizing force, the one who makes dreams real through dedication.', 'You''re deeply trustworthy and keep commitments despite the personal cost. Partners appreciate your reliability and your willingness to work through difficulties. But they may feel you''re too self-sacrificial or that you carry too much responsibility for others'' well-being.', 'Hardening your heart against your own sensitivity. Using discipline as an excuse to reject spirituality or creativity. Depression from suppressing your dreams or holding yourself to impossible standards. Building walls instead of healthy boundaries.', 'Embrace Saturn''s gift: structure makes your spirituality real and your dreams achievable. Build disciplines that honor your sensitivity—meditation, artistic practice, consistent service. Your maturity comes from honoring both your boundaries and your compassion. Time is your ally; trust the slow reveal.', ARRAY['Liz Greene, Saturn', 'Robert Hand, Saturn in Pisces as the Karmic Teacher']),

('Uranus', 'Pisces', 'Uranus in Pisces is a generational rebel breaking old spiritual paradigms. You''re part of a wave reimagining spirituality, creativity, and collective compassion—dissolving outdated beliefs to allow new consciousness to emerge.', 'You''re restless with conventional spirituality and drawn to innovative, experimental approaches. You see through collective illusions and imagine radically different ways to serve humanity. Your intuition is electric, picking up on future trends and emerging consciousness before others sense it.', 'You bring fresh perspectives to any group and inspire others to question outdated beliefs. Your partners and friends sense your revolutionary spirit and your commitment to collective evolution. Some find you too radical or unstable; others recognize your visionary courage.', 'Instability in spiritual or creative expression. Difficulty grounding revolutionary ideas into practical form. Alienating others with your rejection of their cherished beliefs. Chasing the next new thing instead of deepening practices. Loneliness from being ahead of your time.', 'Your gift is seeing what''s dying and what''s being born. Channel your rebellious energy into creative expression, community innovation, and spiritual evolution. Your stability comes from grounding visionary insights into lived practice. Trust that others will eventually catch up to your clarity.', ARRAY['Joanna Martine Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need', 'Susan Miller, Uranus as Awakener and Revolutionary']),

('Neptune', 'Pisces', 'Neptune rules Pisces—this is pure spiritual domicile. Here, Neptune is your greatest gift: mystical, visionary, boundary-dissolving communion with the divine. You are the dreamer, mystic, and channel of collective consciousness.', 'You naturally access non-ordinary states—through art, meditation, music, or intuition. You''re drawn to mystery, the sacred, and what lies beyond rational understanding. Your purpose is often to help others transcend materialism and contact their own spiritual depths. You see what''s invisible to most.', 'You inspire others to believe in magic, meaning, and spiritual connection. Your presence is soothing and your vision is elevating. Partners feel they''ve touched the infinite through you. But they may also feel uncertain about your commitment to concrete reality or worry you''re lost in dreams.', 'Escapism and addiction. Victimhood and blame. Spiritual delusion and bypassing. Difficulty maintaining health, boundaries, or practical responsibilities. Deceiving yourself or others. Losing yourself in other people''s visions instead of trusting your own.', 'Neptune in Pisces is your superpower—trust your mysticism, your art, and your healing gifts. Ground your visions through discipline and expression. You''re here to reveal transcendence to others; protect this gift through honesty, boundaries, and daily spiritual practice. Your vision changes the world.', ARRAY['Robert Hand, Planets in Transit', 'Liz Greene, Neptune: Spiritual Dissolution and Rebirth']),

('Pluto', 'Pisces', 'Pluto in Pisces is a generational force dissolving old collective attachments and rebirthing spirituality itself. You''re part of a wave transforming how humanity understands compassion, connection, and the nature of the soul.', 'You sense beneath the surface of collective narratives, seeing what''s hidden, denied, or buried in shadow. You''re drawn to depth psychology, shadow work, and transforming collective trauma. Your generation is reckoning with cultural lies, spiritual abuse, and reconnecting humanity to genuine compassion.', 'You bring profound depth to any conversation or relationship. Others sense your ability to see their darkest truths without judgment and hold space for their transformation. Your presence catalyzes change, sometimes uncomfortably, because you won''t accept superficial connection.', 'Obsessing over others'' shadow or pathology. Using depth-seeing to manipulate or control. Depression from feeling the weight of collective pain. Difficulty maintaining lightness or joy. Becoming cynical about spirituality after witnessing its misuse.', 'Your gift is transformation through truth. Use your depth-sight to heal, not to wound. Your generation is called to expose spiritual bypassing and create authentic connection. Trust that destruction always precedes rebirth—what''s dying needs to die. Your role is midwife to new consciousness.', ARRAY['Liz Greene, Pluto', 'Joanna Martine Woolfolk, The Only Astrology Book You''ll Ever Need']);
